Skip to main Content
Search Keyword(s)
Visit our China website
Connect & Share
Connect with us on
Twitter
Get daily climate policy and clean tech news
Facebook
'Like' our page for key updates
Google+
Explore news and community
Flickr
See photos from our latest events
RSS Feed
Receive breaking news automatically
YouTube
Subscribe to our video feed
Linkedin
Network with us
Sign up for our newsletter and get our top stories delivered to your inbox.
* required
Email address:
First name:
Last name:
Share this website on
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
Email
More...
Close
What we do
Policy
Our work with States & Regions inspires international climate ambition through demonstrating leadership, impact and policy innovation at the sub-national level.
Finance
Commercial financing for low carbon technologies must be scaled up. Were finding the solutions to help remove barriers to growth.
Business
We work with leading businesses to develop smart climate strategies which give them the edge in the worlds growing low carbon market.
Leadership
Our leadership networks communicate the clear economic benefits and opportunities of a clean revolution to key decision makers in business and government.
States & Regions Alliance
LED Street Lighting
India
RE100
Leadership for a Clean Revolution
Compact of States and Regions
Bijli - Clean Energy for all
LED scale-up
Climate Week NYC
Policy Innovation
Energy Efficiency financing
Home 2025
Future Academy
Off-grid Energy Finance
Net Positive
We Mean Business
Global Cleantech Summit
The Future of Energy
Who we are
Our goals
The Climate Group is an award-winning, international non-profit. Our goal is a prosperous, low carbon future.
Our people
Our staff in China, Europe, India and the US, play a critical role in catalyzing low carbon leadership.
Our achievements
Together, the people and partners who make up The Climate Group deliver programs that are driving a new, clean industrial revolution.
Our partners
We work internationally with leading companies, states, regions, cities and public figures to drive a low carbon future.
About us
Executive Management Team
10 years of The Climate Group
Clean Revolution Leadership
Our values
by region
Governments
Member Principles
by department
Corporates
Board of Directors
NGO & International
News
#CleanRevolution
Get daily news, analysis, reports and media: hard evidence of the world's fast-growing low carbon economy.
News & Blogs
Social Media
Interviews
Events
Press
Publications
Stay informed
We publish regular reports and briefings, as well as free monthly newsletters on the latest clean energy and climate news.
Reports & briefings
Newsletter
Join Us
Join our network
Become a corporate or government partner to drive climate leadership, competitive advantage and greater ambition in the low carbon economy.
Corporates
Governments
Support us
Contact
Our offices
The Climate Group works from offices in Greater China, India, US and Europe to catalyze leadership for a low carbon future.
Our offices
Careers
Press
Contact
Home
What we do
News and Blogs
How to make credible renewable electricity usage claims - and why it matters: Roberto Zanchi, CDP
How to make credible renewable electricity usage claims - and why it matters: Roberto Zanchi, CDPDate03 May 2016As the RE100 Technical Advisory Group issuesbest practice guidancefor corporates making claims over their use of renewable electricity, Roberto Zanchi, Technical Manager for renewable energy atCDP, which partners withThe Climate Groupon RE100, blogs on theimportance of being credible.
Companies join RE100 with a commitment to 100% renewable electricity, an ambitious goal that earns due admiration among their peers and attention in the press. Being a public commitment, the RE100 goal is also a promise to a companys own employees, customers, investors and other stakeholders. For these reasons, what businesses say through a visible platform like RE100
and how
matters.
Our members look to RE100 for guidance on what they can and cant say publicly around their use of renewable electricity. What does it mean for a company to use renewable electricity? How can the 100% goal be achieved?As Technical Manager for renewable energy at CDP, I know these are fundamental questions that businesses grapple with.
Technical Advisory Group
TheRE100 Technical Advisory Groupis a team of renewable energy experts from the Americas, Europe and India helping RE100 to set out criteria and best practice for corporates in the campaign. The Group enables our members to discover new options for making real progress toward their global 100% goals, and helps RE100 to earn its own credibility.
Since 2014, the Technical Advisory Group has produced guidance on corporate renewable electricity options, participated in many of our knowledge exchange webinars, and connected us to projects and events run by their organizations.
Now,a new briefingauthored by three Technical Advisory Group members
Jared Braslawsky (RECS International), Todd Jones (Center for Resource Solutions) and Mary Sotos (World Resources Institute)
is a must read for the major corporates in the campaign as well as those who want to understand more about emerging best practice on this topic.
Making credible renewable electricity usage claims, or Credible Claims for short, is a technical deep-dive into corporate transparency and credibility and has been one year in the making, in consultation with our companies and stakeholders in the industry.
Credible RE claims and why they matter
For me, there are three important takeaways from this document. First, it helps us understand the notion of corporate renewable electricity usage. Second, it sets out clear criteria for companies and their power providers to follow. Third, it can help drive adoption of best practice and even the development of emerging RE markets.
Let me elaborate.
- Using renewable electricity
When a company uses renewable electricity, it might make a claim like:
Our company consumes renewable electricity.
Our company uses wind energy to make this product.
We procure renewable electricity for all our operations.
But what does it really mean for a corporation to use renewable electricity?
Credible Claimsincorporates previous guidance provided by the Technical Advisory Group, and helps companies to understand that the use of renewable electricity is a different claim to zero GHG emissions for electricity. Credible Claims emphasizes the importance of making this distinction for both companies internal target setting and communication to the public.
- Criteria for making credible claims
The second feat ofCredible Claimsis it sets out criteria useful to companies seeking to align with best practice. When making claims to the use of renewable electricity, businesses should ask themselves and their suppliers the following questions:
Are our claims based on credible renewable electricity generation data?
"What qualities of renewable generation are our claims based on?
Does our company have exclusive rights to these attributes?
Is there risk of another agent in the system claiming the same as their own?
When was the power produced and when was it consumed?
What market or geographic limitations should there be on our claims?
Credible Claims is a first step toward giving companies a framework to support their decision-making when it comes to purchasing more renewable electricity. For example, it guides information collection and the verification of those purchases, and the communication of related claims.
Companies can also use the criteria to engage renewable electricity suppliers. Ideally, this effort will favor suppliers who are more transparent and offer products that more closely meet corporate customer needs.
Developing a global RE market
Trust is essential to a well-functioning marketplace and credible information can help build trust. By putting the recommendations ofCredible Claimsinto practice, and asking for more transparency and credibility of themselves and their electricity suppliers, corporates can promote trust in markets for renewable electricity around the world.
RE100 is not oblivious to the differences between countries and renewable energy markets around the world. In this varied and fast-evolving landscape, there are markets where corporate purchase of renewable electricity is well established, markets where the policies and systems that support claims are emerging, and places where none of this is yet possible at all.
In renewable energy markets like the US and Europe, making credible claims means pursuing attainable best practice. Credible Claims advises that companies use attribute certificates to prove exclusive consumption (Renewable Energy Certificates in the US and Guarantees of Origin in Europe), seek independent third-party verification, and report on their consumption transparently
such as annual reporting to CDP, which RE100 draws on for itsAnnual Report.
In some of the emerging renewable energy markets around the world, the value of credible claims is in directing corporate demand toward initiatives that need large purchasers and investors to help establish new market options. The existence of a supporting policy environment is often a necessary condition.
One emerging market where corporatedemandcan drive impact is Taiwan, where RE100 Technical Advisory Group collaborators are spearheading new initiatives with help from RE100 companies. Lastmonth, the Center for Resource Solutionsannounced financial support from Google to launch renewable certification programs in Asia, starting with Taiwan. In addition, the International REC Standard has been working with stakeholders to allow for the issuance oftracking certificatesin the countrysince 2015.
So whether its helping companies improve their own understanding of renewable electricity usage, apply credibility and transparency criteria to their own reporting and purchasing, or getting actively involved in growing the market for the benefit of all companies,Credible Claimscan pave the way to more information, trust and accountability.
As this movement grows, I hope to see the impact of RE100 and its partners help to unlock new markets.
Learn more about our RE100 campaign
Back to ListingShare this page on
Twitter
Google+
linkedin
Email
More...
Latest from Twitter
Tweets by @ClimateGroup
Follow us on Twitter
What's New
Reports
News
Events
Interviews
Blogs
More Info
About Us
Our People
Our Offices
Our Values
Our Partners
Working with us
The Clean Revolution
Our Programs
Our Partners
Our Member Principles
Our Achievements
Support Us
Useful links
Contact Us
Governance
Careers
Climate Week NYC
Press
We Mean Business
Connect with us
eNewsletter
Twitter
LinkedIn
Google+
Facebook
Flickr
RSS Feed
Pinterest
YouTube
Contact usSitemapTerms & Conditions 2012 The Climate Group