Sign In
Register
Home
Archives
Blogs
Americans pick the best and worst U.S. hotel chains
Celebrities with exotic pets
Internet trolls attack Old Navy's interracial ad
The gun-toting women of the Mexican drug cartels
Local
Weather
Traffic
Politics
Joel Connelly
Marijuana
Science
Environment
Obituaries
Crime
City says 23 property owners broke fair housing laws
Viageddon continues: Bertha under viaduct, traffic not completely
Bertha inches ahead, viaduct closure begins, traffic slows
Police: Dad busts peeper at Sea-Tac Airport bathroom
US & World
Crime
U.S.
Washington D.C.
Asia
Africa
Middle East
Europe
Latin America/Carribean
Canada
Odd News
Anti-abortion activist goes to trial over letter to doctor
Teacher sick-outs close most Detroit schools for a 2nd day
10 Things to Know for Today
Funeral will honor 6 of 8 victims in Ohio family shootings
Business
Boeing/Aerospace
Microsoft/Tech
Press Releases
Sponsored Content
CVS Health tops Street 1Q forecasts
American International Group posts 1Q loss
INSIDE WASHINGTON: Ag groups seek exemption from scrutiny
US consumer sentiment slips in April
Sports
Seahawks/NFL
Mariners/MLB
Sounders/Soccer
Huskies/Cougars
Jim Moore
More Sports
Seahawks players won't wear No. 24 to honor Marshawn Lynch
Seahawks receive mostly positive marks for NFL draft
Veteran NFL insider grades every team in the NFL draft
QB Trevone Boykin highlights Hawks' undrafted free agents
A&E
Events
Movies
TV
Music
Restaurants
Books
Theater/Arts
Celebrities
Kate Upton debuts engagement ring at Met Gala
Boxer Shane Mosley rescues baby from burning car
Report: Kerry Washington pregnant with second child
Police search Princes local pharmacy
Life
Home & Garden
Health
Food & Dining
Advice
Reader Blogs
Pets
Sponsored Content
Horoscopes
Visitors Guide
Newest hot swim fashions out of Brazil
Carolyn Hax: She's addicted to her phone
The 5 most talked-about moments from this week's 'Game of
2016 has been a bad year for celebrity deaths but not the worst
Travel
Comics
Comics Kingdom
Trivia
Play Four
Puzzles
Comics: Funky Winkerbean, Zits, The Phantom and more
Puzzles: Sudoku, Crossword, Kakuro and more
Trivia
Play Four
Photos
Education
Real Estate
MenuSections
http://www.seattlepi.com/news/article/Pfizer-tops-Street-1Q-forecasts-7389627.php
Pfizer tops Street 1Q forecasts on higher sales, lower taxes
Linda A. Johnson, Ap Business Writer
Updated 4:55am, Tuesday, May 3, 2016
Photo: Mark Lennihan, AP
Image 1of/1
CaptionClose
Image 1 of 1
FILE - In this Monday, Nov. 23, 2015, file photo, a man enters Pfizer's world headquarters, in New York. Pfizer reports financial results on Tuesday, May 3, 2016.
FILE - In this Monday, Nov. 23, 2015, file photo, a man enters Pfizer's world headquarters, in New York. Pfizer reports financial results on Tuesday, May 3, 2016.
Photo: Mark Lennihan, AP
Pfizer tops Street 1Q forecasts on higher sales, lower taxes
1/1
Back to Gallery
Pfizer easily beat Wall Street expectations for the first quarter as the biggest U.S. drugmaker's net income jumped 27 percent due to higher sales and a lower tax bill. The company raised its 2016 financial forecasts, citing its strong operational performance in the quarter and an improved business outlook.Its shares surged almost 3 percent in premarket trading.Just four weeks after dropping its record $160 billion deal to buy fellow drugmaker Allergan Plc and move its headquarters on paper to Ireland to reduce its taxes, New York-based Pfizer Inc. on Tuesday reported first-quarter net income of $3.02 billion, or 49 cents per share. That was up from $2.38 billion, or 38 cents per share, in 2015's first quarter.
Excluding one-time items, adjusted profit in the latest quarter was 67 cents per share, 12 cents better that the 55 cents expected by analysts surveyed by Zacks Investment Research.The maker of Viagra and pain treatment Lyrica posted revenue of $13.01 billion in the period, up 20 percent and well above the $11.97 billion analysts expected.Sales got a lift in part by changes in currency exchange rates and by revenue from Pfizer's $15 billion purchase last September of injectable drugmaker and infusion device maker Hospira. That deal gave Pfizer a leading position in the global market for injectable drugs, including a new class of lower-cost biotech drugs known as biosimilars.Pfizer said it now expects 2016 earnings in the range of $2.38 to $2.48 per share, up from its prior forecast of $2.20 to $2.30. Pfizer forecast revenue in the range of $51 billion to $53 billion, $2 billion higher than its last forecast.In premarket trading, Pfizer shares rose 90 cents, or 2.7 percent, to $33.70."We began the year with very strong operational performance across both our Innovative and Established businesses and this has served as a key driver of an increase in both our revenue and earnings-per-share guidance for the remainder of the year," Ian Read, chief executive and chairman of the board, said in a statement. ""In addition, we have made excellent progress integrating the legacy Hospira operations and now expect to achieve $1.0 billion of Hospira cost savings by 2018, 25 (percent) more than our initial cost savings target of $800 million."Pfizer shares have risen nearly 2 percent since the beginning of the year, while the Standard & Poor's 500 index has climbed almost 2 percent._____Elements of this story were generated by Automated Insights (http://automatedinsights.com/ap) using data from Zacks Investment Research. Access a Zacks stock report on PFE at http://www.zacks.com/ap/PFE___Follow Linda A. Johnson at www.twitter.com/LindaJ_onPharm
Most Popular
1
9 arrested, 5 police injured: Another May Day in Seattle
2
Missing boy, 6, found dead near Big Four Ice Caves
3
Carolyn Hax: I want kids but don't want to be 'Mommy'
4
Sinkhole opens near Sound Transit tunnel in Ravenna
5
Hansen's Sodo arena project suffers huge loss in City Council...
6
QB Trevone Boykin highlights Seahawks' undrafted free agents,...
7
Carolyn Hax: She's addicted to her phone
View Comments
2016 Hearst Communications, Inc.
Logo
Return to Top
About
Our Company
Careers
Advertising
Ad Choices
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights
Contact
Newsroom Contacts
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Instagram
Hearst Newspapers
Copyright
Hearst Seattle Media, LLC