Trending News
Must Reads
Most Popular
US
World
Science
Crime
Politics
Great Finds
Entertainment
More
More sections
Superlatives
Health
Tech
Money
Sports
Media
Breaking
Celebrity
Lifestyle
Travel
Green
Opinion
Brilliant
Hilarious
Intriguing
Depressing
Ridiculous
Scary
Log into your Newser account
Use the one-click login
Forgot your password
Don't have an account? Sign up now
Log in with Facebook or Twitter.
Logging in
Sign up and get access to special features
Connect to your Facebook or Twitter account and we'll fill in your registration information.
Or simply fill in the form and Continue
This will appear next to all of your comments
This will NOT appear anywhere on Newser
I am at least 13 years of age, and have read and agree to the terms of use.
Already have an account? Login here
Registering
Joined Newser on:
logout
My Comments
Account
Profile Info
Settings
Email Subscriptions
Social Connections
Find what you're looking for
Read Less, Know More on Facebook and Twitter
Follow
Newser in your inbox
Get the 8@8: The eight stories you need to know, bright and early.
View all Newsletters and sign up
More Health Stories
Johnson & Johnson Loses Talc Powder Suit, Faces 1,200 More
His Dad Injected Him With HIV 24 Years Ago. Here's How He's Doing
1 in 11 Organ Donors Died of Drug Overdose Last Year
Analysis: 23 People Shot in 2016 ... by Toddlers
Her Prison Job Terrified Her. What Was Scary Were the Guards
'Paralyzed Bride' Cut Ties With Friend Who Pushed Her in Pool
6 States With Most Mental Illness
Walt Whitman Has Some Advice on Manly Living
Cosmetic Trend for Teen Girls: Labia Surgery
Hershey's Will Start Selling Meat Bars
Dog Hugs: 5 Most Incredible Discoveries of the Week
Death by Human Extinction Far More Likely Than by Car Crash
Health
/
Quaker Oats
Go to Grid|Next Story
'100% Natural' Quaker Oats? Not Quite, Says Lawsuit
Suit contends oats can't be labeled 'natural' with even trace levels of pesticide
By Elizabeth Armstrong Moore,Newser Staff
Posted May 3, 2016 7:01 AM CDT
1 comment Comments
The lawsuit does not question Quaker Oats' growing methods, but rather its advertising. (PRNewsFoto/The Quaker Oats Company)
(Newser)
The nearly 140-year-old Quaker Oats brand isn't as wholesome as its name might imply, according to a lawsuit seeking class-action status after trace amounts of the active ingredient in Roundup were found in some oats, which are advertised as being "100% natural," reports the New York Times. Glyphosate, developed by Monsanto in the 1970s, has recently been on the radar since the World Health Organization announced last year that it "probably" causes cancer, while the Food and Drug Administration announced earlier this year that it will begin testing some foods for it. Eater reports that it's been found in more than a dozen popular German beers.
"Quaker does not add glyphosate during any part of the milling process," parent company PepsiCo said in a statement to Fortune, which notes that several brands, including Honest Co. and Welch's Fruit Snacks, have recently faced similar litigation. "Glyphosate is commonly used by farmers across the industry who apply it pre-harvest." But the lawsuit specifically calls out false advertising, not growing problems. "There is nothing unlawful about Quaker Oats' growing and processing methods," it reads. "What is unlawful is Quaker's claim that Quaker Oats is something that it is not in order to capitalize on growing consumer demand for healthful, natural products." Lead attorney Kim Richman says the suit was filed in New York and California over the weekend and will be filed in other states this week. (Results are mixed on whether the pesticide is an issue in breast milk.)
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Email Story
1 comment Comments
Next on Newser: Will Cruz's Dream Be Dead by Sunset?
More From Newser
Go to Grid
My Take on This Story
To report an error on this story,
notify our editors.
'100% Natural' Quaker Oats? Not Quite, Says Lawsuit is...
0%
Hilarious
11%
Intriguing
11%
Depressing
22%
Brilliant
22%
Scary
33%
Ridiculous
Show results without voting
You Might Like
Sponsored Links
Comments
Read comment policy
Showing
0
of
1 comment
View all 1 comment
Leave a comment
Popular on Newser
Woman: Jared Fogle Sent Me 'Horrifying' Prison Letter
1
Poll: Cruz's Plan to Stop Trump Backfires Big Time
2
Patton Oswalt Quotes Daughter on Wife's Death
3
Guy Follows Woman Into Bathroom Thinking She's a Guy
4
His Dad Injected Him With HIV 24 Years Ago. Here's How He's Doing
5
Other Stories On Our Radar
The Surprising State Where Trump Is Turning Democrats Into Republicans
Guy Punched for Looking Like Shia LaBeouf
Meet the Woman Bringing You Sex 52 Weeks a Year
You Won't Believe What Channing Tatum's Wife Gifted Him With
People Can't Wait to Eat at London's Nude Restaurant
Man Accused of DWI Crash Wears Worst Possible Shirt
Cheating? Dont Do It on This High-Tech Mattress
Partner Links
AROUND THE WEB
Follow Newser
Follow
News From Our Partners
It's No Stretch To Say This Giraffe Woman Wants A New Look
Can African-American Ghost Hunters Do What All Others Have Failed At?
Trust Us ... Your Mom Really Wants A Mermaid Tail
Go to HuffPost Weird
It Takes Two Men to Tango
How Women Could Rule the World
How to Get a Gun in India
Go to Ozy
Former World Champion Boxer 'Sugar' Shane Mosley Rescues Toddler From Freeway...
Boy Nicknamed 'Bear' Loses Cancer Fight After Receiving Hundreds of Birthday...
Grandson Makes His Grandfather's Birthday Wish Come True By Buying Him A Jaguar
Go to Inside Edition
Louisiana Prisoner Freed After 41 Years Of Unconstitutional Life Sentence
Louisiana Rapper's Case Speaks to Bigger Problems in the Criminal Justice System
Top LA Sheriff's Official Makes 'Disappointing' Apology For Racist Emails
Go to HuffPost Crime
Other Sites We Like
Partnering With
Newser In Your Inbox
Get the 8@8: The eight stories you need to know, bright and early.
View all Newsletters and sign up
Get Newser Apps
iPhone
iPad
RSS Feed
Android
Contact Us
Windows Phone
Windows Tablet
Newser Team
About Us
Help
Terms of Use
Sitemap
Privacy Policy
2016 Newser, LLC. All rights reserved.
Switch to Mobile Site