
Do you have a passion for fitness, health and wellbeing? If so why not turn it into an exciting, flexible and rewarding career?
PureGym have partnered with The Training Room, one of the UK's leading Personal Training organisations to form the PureGym Academy. The PureGym Academy is keen to recruit individuals who possess the ability, motivation and aptness for the Personal Trainer Instructor role. Whether you're a graduate looking for your first position or looking to leave the 9-5 and start something new, this could be the ideal move for you.
If successful, you will be offered an exclusive place to gain the nationally recognised (REPS) qualification, 'Active IQ Level 3 Diploma in Fitness Instructing and Personal Training', and depending on your lifestyle there are a variety of flexible training schemes to suit your own needs. Thanks to the additional CPD's on offer you'll be even more employable, which includes the following certificates, teaching you everything you need to enter the industry as a successful Personal Trainer:
Studio Cycling (Spinning)
Gym Based Boxing
Metabolic Resistance and Conditioning Training
Advanced Nutrition Strategies
Emotional Intelligence
Business Awareness
You will benefit from expert professional development and mentoring from The Training Room. This means you will be assigned your own tutor, who will be working hard to secure your dream career as a Personal Trainer.
Once you graduate and successfully complete a selection meeting, you will be offered a position in one of the 118 PureGym Clubs across the UK. You will also benefit from REPS registration, PT insurance and a certificate in First Aid. During your first 12 months at Pure Gym you'll also be certified in Kettlebells and Suspension Training giving you more knowledge and even greater earning potential.
Finance options available*
So if your job in retail, customer service or admin is driving you up the wall or you wish you had a job you loved and like the thought of being your own manager; then it could be time to launch yourself into an exciting and rewarding career as a Personal Trainer.
Places are limited and strictly by application only. No previous experience or qualifications are necessary.
The Training Room is authorised and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority under Interim Permission on the Consumer Credit Register Registration Number 627896. *Subject to status.
Requirements
Apply now
Apply on recruiter's site

