The Atlantic
Subscribe
Search
Menu
It's a Different Story Down the Ballot
Close
Home
Latest
Most Popular
Magazine
Video
Photo
Writers
News
Politics
Business
Culture
Science
Technology
Health
Sexes
U.S. Society
Education
Global
Notes
Projects
Next America
Events
Books
Shop
Your AccountSign Out
Sign InSign Up
2 Free Issues
Try two trial issues of The Atlantic with our compliments.
Claim now
Follow
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Tumblr
Pinterest
RSS
App Store
See our Newsletters >
It's a Different Story Down the Ballot
In Indiana, an outsider candidate for Senate struggles to replicate the enthusiasm that has propelled Trump and Cruz.
Representative Todd Young
Michael Conroy / AP
We noticed that you have an
AD BLOCKER
ENABLED
Please consider disabling it
for our site, or supporting our
work in one of these ways
Subscribe Now >
Sign up forThe Atlantic Daily newsletter
I want to receive updates from partners and sponsors.
Text Size
Priscilla Alvarez
8:00 AM ET
Politics
In Indiana, Republican Representatives Todd Young and Marlin Stutzman are locked in a battle for the seat of retiring Senator Dan Coats. But unlike the presidential primary, in which outsider candidates have gained traction, candidates in down-ballot races are facing challenges. So it goes in Indiana, where the establishment candidate holds a solid lead over a self-proclaimed outsider.Young and Stutzman were both elected to the U.S. House in 2010. Despite their roughly equal tenure in Congress, establishment Republicans have coalesced behind Young, while Stutzman has dubbed himself the outsider. Leading up to the states primary on Tuesday, Young held a commanding lead in the polls. According to a recent NBC/ The Wall Street Journal / Marist poll, 56 percent of likely Republican primary voters backed Young compared to Stutzmans 24 percent, with 19 percent undecided.Young, a former Marine and three-term Republican House member, represents Indianas 9th district. His run for Coatss Senate seat has garnered establishment support, including a super PAC associated with Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell and the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, which spent a little over $1 million backing Young. The Senate Leadership Fund also fronted nearly $800,00 in support of Young. As a result, Politico reports, Young and his supporters have outspent Stutzman 9-to-1 on TV.
The campaign coverage you need from the staff of The AtlanticRead more
On the other hand, Stutzman has racked up support from a number of Tea Party groups, including the Club for Growth, FreedomWorks, and the Senate Conservatives Fund. Stutzman is a member of the House Freedom Caucus, the group that voted against then-House Speaker John Boehner before his resignation. Thats given him leeway to tout his status as an outsider, helping him win support among Tea Party groups. But Stutzmans conservative support has generated more endorsements than cash. The Club for Growth spent $12,392 for Stutzman and the Senate Conservative Fund spent $82,816. Late last month, the Tea Party Express endorsed Stutzman. Its executive director, Taylor Budowich, said in a statement, The Indiana Senate race is a clear example where the politicians and lobbyists in Washington have picked one candidate while the grassroots of Indiana have picked another candidate. Stutzman hopes to translate his stance against the establishment into votes from Donald Trump and Ted Cruz supporters. First thing I do is tell them that Mitch McConnell is with Todd Young, he said. Usually that does it.Both campaigns have also had their hiccups. Young was accused of not having the sufficient number of voter signatures to run for the U.S. Senate, but remained on the ballot after a tie vote by the Indiana Election Commission. And Stutzman has had to answer for a six-day trip to California worth $2,000, which was reportedly paid for by his Senate campaign. Hes reimbursed the campaign since.Indiana leans Republican, but whoever wins on Tuesday is likely to run against former Representative Baron Hill in November, when Democrats hope to take back the majority. Young defeated Hill in a 2010 congressional race. Also looming over the Senate primary race is the memory of 2012, when Senator Richard Lugar lost in the primary against Richard Mourdock, who then went on to lose in the general to now-Democratic Senator Joe Donnelly.The gap between Young and Stutzman echoes the way other down-ballot races have unfolded this year. In North Carolina, Greg Brannon, the anti-establishment candidate, lost to incumbent Richard Burr. And Representative John Shimkus delivered an upset in Illinois against Kyle McCarter, who was backed by the Club for Growth. In the Democratic Party, a similar situation has unfolded. Last week, in Pennsylvania, former congressman and outsider Joe Sestak lost to Katie McGinty, who was backed by national Democrats.So why are outsider candidates not able to replicate the enthusiasm propelling some presidential candidates?It could be that down-ballot elections receive far less media coverage, as Roll Call notes. But on the Republican front, it may also be evidence of a divided party, hoping to maintain its Senate majority, even as it turns to insurgent presidential candidates. Whatever the case, voters will head to the polls in Indiana on Tuesday to participate in a heated primary. And if Young wins, it could further cement the notion that in down ballot races, it is not the year of the outsider.
Jump to Comments
About the Author
Latest Video
Lait de Poule: How to Make Grandma's Eggnog
Put a GoPro on your grandmother and cuteness will ensue.
Greyson Korhonen
May 2, 2016
About the Author
Priscilla Alvarez is an assistant editor at The Atlantic.
Twitter
previousRaise the Minimum Wage, Reduce Crime?nextThe Detroit Sickout: Day 2
Most Popular
Presented by
Siu Chiu / Reuters
Why So Many Smart People Arent Happy
Joe Pinsker
Its a paradox: Shouldnt the most accomplished be well equipped to make choices that maximize life satisfaction?
There are three things, once ones basic needs are satisfied, that academic literature points to as the ingredients for happiness: having meaningful social relationships, being good at whatever it is one spends ones days doing, and having the freedom to make life decisions independently.
But research into happiness has also yielded something a little less obvious: Being better educated, richer, or more accomplished doesnt do much to predict whether someone will be happy. In fact, it might mean someone is less likely to be satisfied with life.
That second finding is the puzzle that Raj Raghunathan, a professor of marketing at The University of Texas at Austins McCombs School of Business, tries to make sense of in his recent book, If Youre So Smart, Why Arent You Happy? Raghunathans writing does fall under the category of self-help (with all of the pep talks and progress worksheets that that entails), but his commitment to scientific research serves as ballast for the genres more glib tendencies.
Continue Reading
Yuri Gripas / Reuters
The Taboo Larry Wilmore Broke
Vann R. Newkirk II
The comedian's n-bomb at the White House Correspondents Dinner highlights a generational shift in black culture.
Georgia McDowell was born the daughter of farmers and teachers in North Carolina in 1902. She was my great-grandmother, and she taught me to read, despite the dementia that clouded her mind and the dyslexia that interrupted mine. I loved Miss Georgia, though she kept as many hard lines in her home as she had in her classrooms. One of the hardest lines was common to many black households: The word nigger and all of its derivatives were strict taboos in person, on television, and on radio from any source, black or otherwise, so long as she lived and breathed. Shed kept the taboo through decades of teaching black students and raising black children. For most of my childhood, the taboo was absolute.
Continue Reading
Lucy Nicholson / Reuters
Opting Out of Coastal Madness to Live a Low-Overhead Life
Anne Trubek
For some, abandoning expensive urban centers would be a huge financial relief.
Neal Gabler has been a formative writer for me: His Winchell: Gossip, Power, and the Culture of Celebrity was one of the books that led me to think about leaving scholarship behind and write nonfiction instead, and Walt Disney: The Triumph of the American Imagination was the first book I reviewed as a freelance writer. To me, he exemplifies the best mix of intensive archival research and narrative kick.
So reading his recent essay, "The Secret Shame of Middle-Class Americans," was a gut punch: First, I learned about a role model of mine whose talent, in my opinion, should preclude him from financial woes. And, then, I was socked by narcissistic outrage: I, too, struggle with money! I, too, am a failing middle-class American! I, too, am a writer of nonfiction who should be better compensated!
Continue Reading
Hugh Kretschmer
The Secret Shame of Middle-Class Americans
Neal Gabler
Nearly half of Americans would have trouble finding $400 to pay for an emergency. Im one of them.
Since 2013, the Federal Reserve Board has conducted a survey to monitor the financial and economic status of American consumers. Most of the data in the latest survey, frankly, are less than earth-shattering: 49 percent of part-time workers would prefer to work more hours at their current wage; 29 percent of Americans expect to earn a higher income in the coming year; 43 percent of homeowners who have owned their home for at least a year believe its value has increased. But the answer to one question was astonishing. The Fed asked respondents how they would pay for a $400 emergency. The answer: 47 percent of respondents said that either they would cover the expense by borrowing or selling something, or they would not be able to come up with the $400 at all. Four hundred dollars! Who knew?
Continue Reading
David McNew / Quanta
The Case Against Reality
Amanda Gefter
A professor of cognitive science argues that the world is nothing like the one we experience through our senses.
As we go about our daily lives, we tend to assume that our perceptionssights, sounds, textures, tastesare an accurate portrayal of the real world. Sure, when we stop and think about itor when we find ourselves fooled by a perceptual illusionwe realize with a jolt that what we perceive is never the world directly, but rather our brains best guess at what that world is like, a kind of internal simulation of an external reality. Still, we bank on the fact that our simulation is a reasonably decent one. If it wasnt, wouldnt evolution have weeded us out by now? The true reality might be forever beyond our reach, but surely our senses give us at least an inkling of what its really like.
Continue Reading
HBO
Game of Throness Epidemic of Kid-Killing
Megan Garber
The violent death of a cooing infant suggests the extremes to which the show will go to question the nature of childhood.
Warning: Season 6 spoilers abound.
Continue Reading
HBO
Game of Thrones: What Is Dead May Never Die
Christopher Orr, Lenika Cruz, and Spencer Kornhaber
Three Atlantic staffers discuss Home, the second episode of the sixth season.
Every week for the sixth season of Game of Thrones, Christopher Orr, Spencer Kornhaber, and Lenika Cruz will be discussing new episodes of the HBO drama. Because no screeners are being made available to critics in advance this year, we'll be posting our thoughts in installments.
Continue Reading
Alkis Konstantinidis / Reuters
Human Extinction Isn't That Unlikely
Robinson Meyer
A typical person is more than five times as likely to die in an extinction event as in a car crash, says a new report.
Nuclear war. Climate change. Pandemics that kill tens of millions.
These are the most viable threats to globally organized civilization. Theyre the stuff of nightmares and blockbustersbut unlike sea monsters or zombie viruses, theyre real, part of the calculus that political leaders consider everyday. And according to a new report from the U.K.-based Global Challenges Foundation, theyre much more likely than we might think.
In its annual report on global catastrophic risk, the nonprofit debuted a startling statistic: Across the span of their lives, the average American is more than five times likelier to die during a human-extinction event than in a car crash.
Partly thats because the average person will probably not die in an automobile accident. Every year, one in 9,395 people die in a crash; that translates to about a 0.01 percent chance per year. But that chance compounds over the course of a lifetime. At life-long scales, one in 120 Americans die in an accident.
Continue Reading
Ruven Afanador
The Obama Doctrine
Jeffrey Goldberg
The U.S. president talks through his hardest decisions about Americas role in the world.
Friday, August 30, 2013, the day the feckless Barack Obama brought to a premature end Americas reign as the worlds sole indispensable superpoweror, alternatively, the day the sagacious Barack Obama peered into the Middle Eastern abyss and stepped back from the consuming voidbegan with a thundering speech given on Obamas behalf by his secretary of state, John Kerry, in Washington, D.C. The subject of Kerrys uncharacteristically Churchillian remarks, delivered in the Treaty Room at the State Department, was the gassing of civilians by the president of Syria, Bashar al-Assad.
Continue Reading
Matt Rourke / AP
Clinton's Battle Plan
Peter Beinart
Dont expect Hillary Clinton to stay above the fray in the general electionher campaign plans sustained and brutal attacks on Donald Trump.
As they look ahead to the general election, some commentators envision a campaign in which Donald Trump attacks viciously and Hillary Clinton makes a virtue of her refusal to stoop to his level. I think Trumps method will be to turn on the insult comedy against Hillary Clinton, declared GOP consultant Mike Murphy earlier this week. Her big judo move is playing the victim. Voxs Ezra Klein speculated earlier this year that Trump sets up Clinton for a much softer and unifying message than shed be able to get away with against a candidate like [Marco] Rubio.
I doubt it will play out that way. Rope-a-dope isnt Clintons style. When facing political threats, her pattern has been to strike firstand with great force.
Continue Reading
To Break a Phone Addiction, Turn Your Screen Gray
James Hamblin, Nicolas Pollock, and Jaclyn Skurie
A suggestion for compulsive checkers
Watch Video
The Best 71-Second Animation You'll Watch Today
Chris Heller
A rock monster tries to save a village from destruction.
Watch Video
Against Empathy
Caitlin Cadieux and Paul Bloom
From a moral standpoint, it makes the world worse.
Watch Video
More Popular Stories
Show Comments
Like this? Subscribe to the Atlantic Daily, a newsletter with stories,
ideas, and images from The Atlantic.
Subscribe
Get 10 issues a year and save 65% off the cover price.
State
Alabama
Alaska
Alberta
American Samoa
APO/FPO-Africa
APO/FPO-Canada
APO/FPO-Europe
APO/FPO-Middle East
APO/FPO-Americas
APO/FPO-Pacific
Arizona
Arkansas
British Columbia
California
Colorado
Connecticut
Delaware
District of Columbia
Florida
Georgia
Guam
Hawaii
Idaho
Illinois
Indiana
Iowa
Kansas
Kentucky
Louisiana
Maine
Manitoba
Marshall Islands
Maryland
Massachusetts
Michigan
Micronesia
Minnesota
Mississippi
Missouri
Montana
Nebraska
Nevada
New Brunswick
New Hampshire
New Jersey
New Mexico
New York
Newfoundland
Newfoundland-Labrador
North Carolina
North Dakota
Northern Mariana Isles
Northwest Territories
Nova Scotia
Nunavut
Ohio
Oklahoma
Ontario
Oregon
Palau
Pennsylvania
Prince Edward Island
Puerto Rico
Quebec
Quebec
Rhode Island
Saskatchewan
South Carolina
South Dakota
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Vermont
Virgin Islands
Virginia
Washington
West Virginia
Wisconsin
Wyoming
Yukon Territories
Fraud Alert regarding The Atlantic
Newsletters+
The Atlantic
The Atlantic Daily
This Week
This Month
New Photo Galleries
Top Videos This Week
The Edge (Politics & Policy daily)
CityLab
Todays Top Stories
This Week's Most Popular Stories
I want to receive updates from partners and sponsors.
Follow+
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Tumblr
Pinterest
RSS
App Store
About+
Masthead
FAQ
Press
Jobs
Shop
Books
Emporium
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Advertise
Advertising Guidelines
Terms and Conditions
Subscriber Help
Responsible Disclosure
Site Map
Copyright
2016 by The Atlantic Monthly Group. All Rights Reserved.
Close
Skip Ad >
Continue to theatlantic.com in
seconds >