
Scott Rothrock Joins Xometry.

BETHESDA, Md., May 3, 2016 /PRNewswire/ -- Xometry Inc., a next-generation advanced-manufacturing company, today announced that Scott Rothrock has joined as Senior Vice President of Software Engineering. Rothrock joins from Politico, where he was the Chief Technology Officer. He will report directly to Randy Altschuler, CEO and Co-Founder of Xometry.
Rothrock, a key member of the leadership team, will play a pivotal role in building Xometry's software to power its on-demand advanced manufacturing platform. His responsibilities will include management of software engineering, product strategy, and platform operations.
"We're thrilled to have Scott join Xometry," said Altschuler. "Scott's experience driving growth at startups combined with his expertise leading technology teams at major brands will be instrumental in helping us continue our strong revenue growth. He'll be critical to helping us deliver Xometry's experience across multiple platforms."
Valerie Coffman, Xometry's Chief Technology Officer, noted "I'm excited to partner with Scott to ensure that our instant pricing and geometric analysis are delivered wth the best possible user experience and provide value for even more customers. He is a fantastic addition to our technology team."
"I'm excited to join Xometry at such a key time in their growth trajectory. I look forward to accelerating the technology and product to support Xometry's goal of making advanced manufacturing accessible to everyone from blue-chip firms to hardware startups," said Rothrock.
Rothrock has held senior technology leadership positions at several venture-backed technology and media businesses including Appfluent, a provider of business intelligence and data warehouse management software, Goal.com, the largest soccer news site in the world, and HealthCentral, a private online company that provides health care-related content and ecommerce. Rothrock spent the first 11 years of his career at Accenture where he implemented complex systems for clients like Verizon, Cox, AOL, ETS, and washingtonpost.com.
About Xometry
Xometry, founded in the fall of 2013, is committed to bringing manufacturing back to America by using software to build a robust and scalable manufacturing platform. Xometry has created proprietary technology to provide its customers with the optimal manufacturing solution at the best price. Xometry has raised over $16MM in funding including a recent round led by Highland Capital Partners. For more information, visit www.xometry.com. Xometry's diverse customer base of more than 2000 companies includes blue-chip names such as General Electric, Lockheed Martin, Medtronic, MIT Lincoln Lab, NASA, Samsung, Stryker and the US Army. In a September 2015 report, the Wall Street technology research firm Pacific Crest declared that Xometry has the "...best prices and user experience," versus its competitors both public and private.

