Subscribe
Log In
Search
Listen Now
Tuesday, May 3, 2016 83
Today's Paper
Weather
45F
Mostly Cloudy
Tuesday, May 3, 2016
Today's Schedule Listen Now!
Toggle navigation
News
Local
State
Nation - World
Business
Obituaries
Weather
Sports
Prep Sports
Illini Sports
All Sports
Illini Forums
Business
Living
A&E
Blogs
Opinion
Editorials
Letters
Columns
Guest Commentary
All Opinions
Multimedia
Photo Galleries
Podcasts
Videos
Classified
Place an Ad
Classified Listings
Garage Sales
Jobs
Jobs
Shop
Weekly Ads
Classified
Place an Ad
Classified Listings
Garage Sales
Jobs
Jobs
Shop
Weekly Ads
Retired Eastland Suites manager gets his due with tourism award
share
Facebook
Twitter
| Subscribe
More Local
Asmussen: Custard Cup group leaves good taste
Two more swastikas found drawn in UI Armory
UI senate OKs adding courses on non-Western, minority cultures to required list
Urbana detectives turn to state crime lab for leads in 1988 stabbing
Login Options
Commenting
Login to comment or to shop for deal of the day or books.
Member Login
Login to your member account to read premium articles.
Username or e-mail: *
Password: *
Create new account
Request new password
Close
Home
News
Local
Retired Eastland Suites manager gets his due with tourism award
Tue, 05/03/2016 - 7:00am | Tim Mitchell
Photo by: Robin Scholz/The News-Gazette
Joe Duchene, shown Wednesday outside Eastland Suites, from which he retired as general manager in 2010, will be honored with one of Visit Champaign County's 2016 Tourism Impact awards for his work behind the development of the Champaign-Urbana Hotel Lodging Association.
Joe Duchene came to Champaign-Urbana in the 1970s for college. Little did the future University of Illinois grad know at the time that he would end up making this his home for the next four decades, spending 33 of those years as general manager of what's now known as Eastland Suites.
On Wednesday night, Duchene will be toasted during Visit Champaign County's annual ceremony honoring its Tourism Impact Awards. In advance of the big night, the retiree answered a few questions from staff writer TIM MITCHELL at his south Champaign home.
Was hotel management the career path you always had in mind?
I always joked that I filled out the back of a matchbook. When I was young, hotel degrees were offered on the backs of matchbooks. When I graduated from the UI, I took a job as a part-time maintenance man at Howard Johnson's, which is now Eastland Suites.
When I went to graduate school, I kept my part-time job. While I was still in graduate school, the owner of the hotel offered me the general manager's position. That was in 1977. And I stayed there until my retirement in 2010.
Tell us about your work with the Champaign-Urbana Hotel-Motel Association and the Champaign-Urbana Hotel Lodging Association.
We had about 15 hotels in the region participating, comprising about 1,200 hotel rooms. We got together for a common cause. We worked with the Assembly Hall and the IHSA to make sure that hotels held rooms for the teams when they came to town for the (basketball) tournament. That's because the teams aren't selected until a week before the tournament.
We ran golf outings for charitable events. We also kept an eye on bills and laws that could affect our industry.
When the IHSA moved the state basketball tournaments to Peoria and Bloomington, how did that affect the local hotel industry?
Businesswise, it was a big blow. Some people pointed fingers at the hotels because people were complaining about our rates being too high. But I don't buy that. In most cases, the hotels treated the fans really well. You don't take advantage of a prime piece of business.
What's your view on municipalities that choose to increase their hotel-motel tax rates?
When one town is charging a 5 percent hotel tax and another one is charging an 8 percent hotel tax, the people who pay the bills look at that when deciding where to stay. I'm sure people get frustrated with the amount of hotel taxes that they pay.
I understand the cities' point of view in that you are taxing people who can't complain. They aren't voting for anybody here. But the fact is, I would rather have them in town spending money than out of town someplace else because the hotel taxes are too high.
Last thing: Tell the story about how you met your wife, Ann Beddini.
Both Ann and I had lost spouses. I regularly played poker with a group of guys. One day, Ann overheard one of my friends talking about poker. She said that, if we ever had an open spot at the table, let her know. She had frequently played poker as a kid.
He then invited Ann to come play poker, and that's where me met. Three or four years later, we started dating, and we ultimately got married.
Toast to Tourism
As part of National Travel & Tourism Week, Visit Champaign County will honor its 2016 Tourism Impact award winners from 4 to 6 p.m. Wednesday at City Center. Drum roll, please ...
-- Joe Duchene, former Eastland Suites GM-- Nancy Snellen, Allerton Park & Retreat Center volunteer-- Jameel Jones, Champaign Park District-- ciLiving and producer Nancy Foreman-- The Pygmalion Festival
Sections (3):News, Local, BusinessTopics (3):People, Retail, Travel
More Local
Asmussen: Custard Cup group leaves good taste
Two more swastikas found drawn in UI Armory
UI senate OKs adding courses on non-Western, minority cultures to required list
Urbana detectives turn to state crime lab for leads in 1988 stabbing
More Local
Asmussen: Custard Cup group leaves good taste
Two more swastikas found drawn in UI Armory
UI senate OKs adding courses on non-Western, minority cultures to required list
Urbana detectives turn to state crime lab for leads in 1988 stabbing
Comments
News-Gazette.com embraces discussion of both community and world issues. We welcome you to contribute your ideas, opinions and comments, but we ask that you avoid personal attacks, vulgarity and hate speech. We reserve the right to remove any comment at our discretion, and we will block repeat offenders' accounts. To post comments, you must first be a registered user, and your username will appear with any comment you post. Happy posting.
Login or register to post comments
Latest News
Area history, May 3, 2016
Asmussen: Custard Cup group leaves good taste
Danville driver reports vehicle invasion
First up on retired federal judge's docket? A bit of golf
Gannett gets tough in bid for Tribune
Suit: Starbucks overfills its cold drinks with ice
This day in history, May 3, 2016
Service Club of the Week: Twin Cities Knights of Columbus Council 891
Savoy census needs volunteers
Chicago State a flawed but final shot at a degree
More Local News
Most Viewed News
6 charged with dismemberment in Ashley Gibson case
Arraignment in dismemberment case
Mother of victim: 'I know these people'
UPDATE: Illini all-star team of investors buys Jarling's Custard Cup
Danville doctor's license suspended
Most Commented News
Chancellor OKs mascot search
F&S noose incident prompts probes
No end in sight for Rush's case
UPDATE: Badly injured dog showing 'resilience' (w/video)
Portillo's considering Champaign location
Trending Now
UPDATE: Illini all-star team of investors buys Jarling's Custard Cup
Danville doctor's license suspended
40 years for Champaign shooter
Chancellor OKs mascot search
Jury quick to find Kelley guilty
UI student arrested over LSD found in room
It's time to apologize to our teachers
6 charged with dismemberment in Ashley Gibson case
Arraignment in dismemberment case
Study: Carle among 10 most profitable hospitals
Dan Corkery: Do you know what's under your property?
Radio
Newstalk 1400 WDWS-AM
Lite Rock 97.5 WHMS-FM
Classic Hits 107.9 WKIO-FM
Print
County Star
The Independent News
The Leader
LeRoy Farmer City Press
Mahomet Citizen
Paxton Record
Journal Republican
Rantoul Press
Magazines
At Home Magazine
Central Illinois Business Magazine
Customer Service
Help
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Frequently Asked Questions
Subscription Information
Quick Links
eEdition
Obituaries
Submit Vacation Stop
Staff List
Pay your Subscription
Buy a Photo
Send a News Tip
Submit an Announcement
Start a subscription now to enjoy our award-winning local news and sports coverage. Print, digital, or both-- we've got you covered.
Subscribe
Connect with The News-Gazette
1995-2015 The News-Gazette, Inc. | All Rights Reserved | 15 Main St., Champaign, IL 61820