Skip to content
News Home
About
Advertising
Events
A Sustainable Future for Heathrow
Heathrow: Thrive or Die?
Opportunity Hayes
Place West London
lookwest interactive map
Newsletter
Place West London
Premier Inn for Fulham
Investing in connected places
Wandsworth Design Awards announced
Posted on 3rd May 2016 by lookwestlondon
A new sixth form block at a secondary school in Tooting and a series of public works of art in Balham High Road have both been named as the winners of this years Wandsworth Design Awards.
The awards recognise and reward local buildings completed in the last two years which make a positive contribution to the local environment and set a good example to others.
They aim to raise the profile of design in the borough and encourage architects to improve the quality of the built environment.
This year 34 projects were nominated, andtwo awards made.
Graveney Schools new sixth form block an imaginative and contemporary design (pictured top).
Artworks in Balham High Road, including the colourful frieze attached to the wall under the railway bridge (pictured right).
The panel also agreed that the following eight projects be commended:
Abbott House, Nightingale Lane, Balham for its contribution to providing additional residential accommodation to the roof of the existing block of flats.
18 Malbrook Road, Putney a well-considered contemporary extension to this residential property
65 Medfield Street, Roehampton an elegant contemporary solution to extending this residential property.
St Pauls Church Battersea, recognized for the high standard of restoration of this historic building.
143 Lower Richmond Road, Putney a well-mannered restoration of this commercial property including shopfronts.
Banham HQ, Thornsett Road, Earlsfield. commended for its contemporary approach and significant improvement to the design of business development.
Tooting Triangle, Tooting Bec Common commended for the quality of restoring this popular play facility.
37 Manville Road, Tooting commended for the landscape planting brightening up a front garden in this residential street.
This entry was posted in Wandsworth. Bookmark the permalink.
Premier Inn for Fulham
Investing in connected places
Search for:
LookWest News
Curve paused
Investing in connected places
Wandsworth Design Awards announced
Premier Inn for Fulham
Countryside Hounslow consultation
London First wants more overseas promotion
Friends Garden opens
New South Kilburn park to open
Passengers continue to grow at Heathrow
Brent approves investment strategy
Borough by Borough
Barnet
Brent
Ealing
General
Hammersmith and Fulham
Harrow
Heathrow
Hillingdon
Hounslow
Park Royal
Slough
Wandsworth
Place West London Sponsors
Proudly powered by WordPress.
This site uses cookies More infoNo problem