In...
Articles Cocktails Discussions Distilleries Events Where to buy Where to drink Where to visit Whisky tastings Whiskies to buy
Not a member? - Register and login now.
All registered users can read our entire magazine archive.
Home
Whisky Magazine
Issue 135 Out Now
Back Issues
Next Issue
Stockists
Subscribe
Authors
Categories
English
French
Greek
Japanese
Spanish
Mandarin
Editors Choice
Recommended
Best Buy
NEW! Tablet Edition
NEW! WMI Auction Index
Gifts
Back Issues
Buy Whisky
Gifts
Accessories
Books
Gift Sets
Photographs
Prints
Whisky Gift Finder
Subscriptions
Events
Whisky Live
Whisky Luxe
World Whiskies Conference
Whisky events calendar
Add your event
Awards
Hall of Fame
Icons of Whisky
Independent Bottlers Challenge
World Whiskies Awards
World Whiskies Design Awards
Editors Choice
Recommended
Best Buy
Tastings
Find a Whisky
Age
Brands
Region
Type
Vintage
Whisky Awards
Buy whiskies online
Tasting Quiz
Submit your whiskies
Directory
Associations/Clubs/Societies
Drinks Producer
Event Organisers
Importers
Independent Bottlers
Media
Producers
Services
Web Site
Where to Buy
Where to Drink
Where to Stay
Where to Visit
Whisky Producers
Whisky Bars of the World
Add your business
Whisky Extras
Cocktails
Glossary
News
Nosing & Tasting Course
Awards
Blended Whisky
Cigars
Distillery Focus
From the Editor
History
Production
Travel
Whisky and Food
Forums
Join Now
Login
Whisky Forums
Active topics
New posts
Terms and Conditions
Buy whisky
SUBSCRIBE
News Desk
News Archive
RSS Feed
Whisky Magazine News - Curtain comes down on 2016 Spirit of Speyside Festival
Latest News
Tue 03 May 2016
Curtain comes down on 2016 Spirit of Speyside Festival
Tue 26 Apr 2016
Kingsbarns Distillery takes to four wheels
Tue 19 Apr 2016
Ex-SWA director joins Board of WhiskyInvestDirect
Tue 12 Apr 2016
Whisky-filled chandeliers from Angels' Share Glass
Thu 07 Apr 2016
A toast to the Spirit of Speyside Whisky Festival
More
Archive
RSS
Issue 135 Out Now
Spirit of Speyside Whisky Festival, Japanese craft whisky, Sedgwick, Kentucky Peerless
Buy now
Preview
NEW! Tablet Edition
Tue 03 May 2016
Curtain comes down on 2016 Spirit of Speyside Festival
The final drams have been sipped at the 2015 Spirit of Speyside Whisky Festival
but organisers are already preparing to do it all over again. The curtain came down on over 500 events last night (Monday, 2 May) and now the team behind the world famous Festival are putting plans in place for a second event in the early autumn.The Spirit of Speyside Whisky Festival took place over five days in the heart of Scotlands best loved whisky producing region, drawing thousands of visitors from home and abroad for a programme combining the countrys national drink with music, food and fun.New records were set when tickets went on sale for the Festivals biggest ever programme earlier in the year. Festival chairman James Campbell says this years gathering in whiskys spiritual home was one of the best on record.He adds, It will take us a little bit of time to find out what the overall numbers were, but the area was extremely busy for the full five days and, most importantly, everyone I saw and spoke to had nothing but great things to say.To see people at these events thoroughly enjoying themselves makes worthwhile all the planning and hard work of our volunteer directors, of the Festival manager and of all the other people who give up their own time to ensure the Festival is a success. Knowing visitors will leave the area with very special memories is hugely rewarding for all of us.I personally met visitors from over a dozen different countries
some who have been coming for years and others who were visiting for the first time
and it was really special to see all these visitors having such a great time side by side with local people.I think visitors are always surprised by the huge range of different events, and the fact that they can have access to the people who are involved in the very heart of our whisky industry. I dont think any other whisky festival in the world can offer what we can.All eyes are now on Spirit of Speyside
Distilled, which will take place in Elgin Town Hall on September 9 to 11. It will bring together Speysides whisky producers under one roof on their own doorstep for the very first time.The event will also include local gin and craft beer, along with a wide range of food producers, showing off the huge extent of Speysides larder. Spirit of Speyside - Distilled will be split into four sessions over the three days, with tickets being sold for each session.It is hoped that the event will initially attract a more local audience, but in time Spirit of Speyside - Distilled will also become a destination for the many international visitors who attend the main event in May.James adds, The Spirit of Speyside Whisky Festival has grown to become a phenomenal event, but we felt that it was time to add a second event which did not require visitors to undertake a great deal of itinerary planning.We chose Elgin for the location because it is the transport hub for the area, with excellent rail and road links. People can come for one session or the whole weekend, but still enjoy the spirit
and welcome
for which Speyside is famous.Tickets for Spirit of Speyside
Distilled will go on sale within the next couple of weeks via the website http://www.spiritofspeyside.com. The Festival is also active on social media
facebook.com/WhiskyFestival and @spirit_speyside on Twitter and on Instagram.
Chat about this story in the Forums. There are 0 replies to this news story.
Top
Home
About
Contact
Advertise
Terms and Conditions
Whisky Magazine is published / organised by Paragraph Publishing Ltd
Copyright
1999 - 2016
Do not copy or reproduce content from this web site without permission.
Paragraph Publishing Limited, registered in England and Wales, number 5292845.
Registered office: King Street House, 15 Upper King Street, Norwich. NR3 1RB.
VAT number: 706 7778 02
You may also be interested in:
Scotland Magazine
Tastingbeers.com
Whisky Live
World Whiskies Conference
World Whiskies Design Awards
MJP Internet