Subscribe / Unsubscribe Enewsletters
|
Login
|
Register
NEWS
All News
Asia
MANAGEMENT
CXO Profiles
IT Management
TECHNOLOGY
Applications
Cloud Computing
Computer Hardware
Data Centre
Emerging Technology
Industries
Internet
Mobile
Networking
Operating Systems
Security
Storage
BLOGS
CAREERS
WHITEPAPERS
Applications
Cloud Computing
Computer Hardware
Data Centre
Emerging Technology
Industries
Internet
Mobile
Networking
Operating Systems
Security
Storage
EVENTS
AWARDS
IT Excellence Awards 2011
Strategic 100 2011
MAGAZINES
Pencil Banner
Home
Data Centre
CITIC Telecom CPC acquires Linx Telecommunications' telco assets
Nurdianah Md Nur |
May 3, 2016
The move will
boost network service coverage in Central & Eastern Europe, while capturing opportunities of Chinas One Belt, One Road Initiative.
CITIC Telecom International CPC Limited recently announced its acquisition of the telecommunication business of Linx Telecommunications B.V. (Linx Telecommunications).
The acquisition includes Linx's 470 kilometer optic fiber network in the Baltic Sea, its network operations centers (NOCs) in Moscow and Tallinn, Estonia, as well as Linx's data centre in Tallinn, which serves as Estonia's largest Internet Exchange (TLL-IX).
Currently undergoing customary regulatory approval, the acquisition is expected to complete in the second half of 2016.
According to CITIC Telecom CPC, the move aims to extend its global footprint to Central Asia and Eastern Europe markets, as well as greatly enhancing its ability to capture opportunities arising from China's "One Belt, One Road" economic cooperation initiative.
The "One Belt, One Road" initiative aims to foster growth and closer cooperation in trade links, capital flows, infrastructural investment and policy coordination in Asia, Europe, and Africa.
It is expected that investment by China under the initiative will double within the next three years, reaching a total of US$200 billion.
Xin Yue Jiang, Chairman of CITIC Telecom International Holdings Limited said: "The acquisition of these important telecommunications assets is significant to our development strategy of expanding business internationally and increasing global network coverage, keeping Mainland China as the foundation of our business, with Hong Kong and Macau serving as both base and springboard to more opportunities."
"We are leveraging Linx's extensive network resources and experience in Central Asia, Central and Eastern Europe to significantly boost our access to, and capability to handle, opportunities from the "One Belt, One Road" initiative, in addition to addressing and better serving our customers' business needs in these regions," he added.
The network services provided by Linx cover a high-growth potential market which includes Russia, Kazakhstan and the "Stan" region, the Baltic Sea and Eastern Europe.
Since both companies have a similar customer base, the acquired assets will enable CITIC Telecom CPC to readily strengthen its development and strategy for markets in Central Asia and Eastern Europe.
This acquisition will also further reinforce CITIC Telecom CPC's capabilities in managed networking services, cloud computing and other managed value-added data services.
Moreover, Russian language proficiency among Linx Telecommunications team members joining CITIC Telecom CPC, as part of the acquisition, will bring added competence in expanding business in the region.
1
Sign up for MIS Asia eNewsletters.
COMMENTS
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
blog comments powered by Disqus
RELATED ARTICLES
Solar airplane begins journey across the continental US
Malaysia's AIMS receives ISO certification, and marks up two other major achievements
NxtGen adopts Brocade new IP networking solution to boost business growth
Helium goes Green with new IoT environmental sensor
U.S. efforts to build next-gen supercomputer take shape
RELATED WHITEPAPERS
Hybrid cloud and the future of cloud computing
Invest in the right flash storage solution
High Capacity Flash At A Cost Effective Price Opens The Door For New Use Cases and Workloads in HPC
EY's Global Information Security Survey 2014 (GISS) - Get ahead of cybercrime
Increasing agility and reducing cost for private and hybrid cloud computing
FEATURED WHITE PAPERS
Unlocking the Promise of a Connected World: Using the Cloud to Enable the Internet of Things
With billions of sensors on millions of devices collecting information on everything from automobile performance to energy use, the IoT contains more access to information than weve ever had before.
Are you ready to Connect, Analyze and Integrate?
The ROI and TCO Benefits of EMC Data Domain Deduplication Storage and VMware
Improving backup operations and reducing the storage costs involved in server virtualization are key to the successful expansion of virtualization across an organization. This paper examines and quantifies the costs and benefits of deduplication in VMware environments.
AFA SNAPSHOT TECHNOLOGY
This paper discusses use cases and challenges using snapshot technologies in pure hard disk drive (HDD)based arrays, and explores the advantages of a snapshot implementation from EMC on its XtremIO all-flash array (AFA).
High Definition Visual Collaboration with Panasonic
The concept of seamless communication and collaboration through video conferencing has seen many variations over the past fifty years since the first Picturephone was presented at the New York World's Fair in 1964.
2015 DDoS Attack Trends and Outlook for 2016
CDNetworks provides Content Delivery Network (CDN) and Cloud Security services. This report analyses information on a variety of DDoS attack types and trends, and provides information required to minimise damage from these DDoS attacks.
SPONSORED LINKS
IDC FutureScape: Asia 2016 Data Center Predictions
Digital transformation in Spore grows in maturity, says findings from SURF Index 2015.
New SURF@NCS facility gives smart city living a boost and embrace cybersecurity solutions.
Learn from a Malaysian property developer on their transformation to a Modern workplace.
F&N Malaysia's outstanding business intelligence system wins CIO Asia award: interview
10 tips to help CIOs reduce stress
6 tips for success from Obama's creative director
CIO banks on bots to bolster customer experience
3 misconceptions CIOs have about agile
Singaporeans ready for mobile payments: Visa
Microsoft supports Singapores Smart Nation vision
Samsung's Gear 360 VR camera goes on sale Friday -- in Korea and Singapore
Singapore Airlines to implement new crew management solution
Avaya's contact centre supports Singapore NGO
Malaysia can lead adoption of simulation engineering technologies
Harvard Business School will help Malaysias Big Data talent goal
F&N Malaysia's outstanding business intelligence system wins CIO Asia award: interview
Malaysia's AIMS receives ISO certification, and marks up two other major achievements
Confident about Malaysia's talent pool, Cognizant boosts regional presence with new Cyberjaya centre
About Us |
Contact |
Advertise |
Print Subscription |
Terms of use |
Privacy statement