TRADIO
SCHOOL DELAYS
EVENT CANCELLATIONS
Mobile Apps
Home
Shows
Good Mornings
TRADIO
Agribusiness
Lets Go Gardening
Jonathon Brandmeier
Rush Limbaugh
Dave Ramsey
Program Schedule
News
Local News
Local News Videos
Traffic
Military Hometown News
National News
Business
Entertainment
Health
Politics
Sports
Local Sports
BVC Live
Sports Audio Archive
Local Sports Videos
Racing World
Sports BUZZ Ohio
Cleveland Indians
Columbus Blue Jackets
Ohio State Buckeyes
National Sports
Weather
Weather Forecast
School Delays
Cancellations
Flood Levels
VIDEOS
LOCAL News Videos
Local Sports Videos
Community
Community Events
Community Links
Traffic
Lost & Found Pets
Military Hometown News
Pump Patrol
Social Findlay
Contact
Advertising Staff
Broadcast Staff
Contact Us
Credit Application
Employment
Contests
Contests
Contest Rules
Listen Live
Listen Live
BVC Live
Mobile Apps
Trump Calls Indiana Town Importantville in Final Push
May 3, 2016
Posted
by
In
Politics
Tagged Political News
ABC News(SOUTH BEND, Ind.)
On the eve of the now crucial Indiana primary, Donald Trump sought to let his final crowd in the state know how important their votes are in this election.
Now Indiana is becoming very importantyou folks belong where you belong; its called Importantville right? I love it, Trump happily rasped.
Trumps campaign closed out the Hoosier State as it has in so many states, sidestepping the latest controversial comment, mired in a barrage of omnidirectional attacks, fending off flimsy alliances and, in spite of it all
or perhaps because of it all
remaining supremely confident.
In his last address to the people of Indiana, Trumps remarks were almost a best of compilation
he brought up rival Ted Cruzs birther status, decried the media, hit low-energy Jeb Bush and reaffirmed his plans to build a wall.
The businessman had criss-crossed the state, reaching thousands of voters, though making fewer stops than Cruz. Trump was quick to berate his rival, using an attack as an impetus to implore people to vote.
I think hes crazy. Honestly, I think hes crazy. Lying Ted does not have the temperament to be doing this. He is choking like a dog because he is losing so badly. We have to put him away tomorrow folks. We gotta get out and vote, Trump said.
Trump also touted the endorsements of big Indiana names, including famed Indiana University Coach Bobby Knight and former Notre Dame Coach Lou Holtz.
Knight, a man known for his fiery temper, appeared at three events with the Republican frontrunner, proudly declaring in Evansville that son of a b- could play for me!
But even as his crowds swelled and endorsements poured in, Trump could not escape his own greatest foe
his mouth.
Trump accused Hillary Clinton of playing the womans card, after which his Democratic rival had her two best days of fundraising ever. While denouncing Chinas trade policies, Trump said that the country has been raping the United States. And he touted the endorsement of Mike Tyson, saying that he wasnt aware the boxer had ever been convicted of rape.
Despite seeming missteps in recent weeks, though, Trump looks poised to capture Indiana, narrow Cruz says he sees towards winning the nomination. Cruz and John Kasich had tried to derail Trumps efforts by announcing that they would get out of each others way in states the other was likely to win.
Despite seeming missteps in recent weeks, though, Trump looks poised to capture Indiana, increasing the likelihood that hell manage to win the delegates needed to clinch the nomination. Cruz and John Kasich had tried to derail Trumps efforts by announcing that they would get out of each others way in states where the other was likely to win. However, the strategy has yet to pay off.
Daniel Sharp, of Mishawaka, was not impressed.
I think they should be able to stand on their own two feet. If they cant win the votes from the people, all this alliance nonsense is just more political corruption as usual, he said.
Sharp was in attendance at Trumps final rally in South Bend. He believes Trump will win the state handily. He mentioned the Hail Mary that Cruz threw last week by announcing Carly Fiorina as his Vice Presidential pick should he get the nomination.
I dont think its going to make a difference, Sharp said. I think the writings on the wall for Mr. Cruz.
Copyright
2016, ABC Radio. All rights reserved.
About the author
Prev US Serviceman Killed in Combat by ISIS Forces in Northern Iraq
Next
City in New York Declares State of Emergency Due to Contaminated Water
WFIN News Team
Doug Jenkins
News Director
Andrew Flinn
News Reporter
Advertisement
WFIN on Soundcloud
Popular Posts
Hancock County Teen Reported Missing
Dead Body Discovered East Of Findlay Reservoir
Fire Breaks Out At Nissin Brake In Findlay
Findlay Police Detain Three Following Early Morning Standoff On Defiance Avenue
One Person Hurt In Apartment Fire On North Main In Findlay
WFIN Tweets
Tweets by @WFINradio
Latest Post Images
Our latest tweets
Debate About Policy Manual Boils Over At Arlington Council Meeting https://t.co/e4mtc8OWjaabout 1 hour agoFive Storylines to Watch in the Indiana Primary https://t.co/h6xAjKdo1Dabout 1 hour agoStudy: Flu Shots for Pregnant Moms Protect Babies, Too https://t.co/olTSMm3DSCabout 1 hour agoCity in New York Declares State of Emergency Due to Contaminated Water https://t.co/hyu2fGLF3pabout 1 hour ago
Follow us
ADVANTAGE PARTNERS
OUR INFORMATION Studio WFIN
P.O. Box 1507 Findlay, Ohio 45839-1507
551 Lake Cascades Parkway - Findlay, Ohio 45840
Phone: 419-422-4545
Studio Line: 419-425-1346
Blanchard River Broadcasting Company
A Division of The Findlay Publishing Company
WKXA ||
106.3 The Fox || The Courier || Social Findlay || The Review Times || Sports BUZZ Ohio || Courier Bridal
Please read our Privacy Statement and Commenting Policy
2014 Blanchard River Broadcasting Company. All Rights Reserved.
Developed by Findlay Digital Design