Jump to main content
News
Sport
Weather forecast
Mobile site
E-Newsletters
News feed
Site map
Register
Log in
Common sense in court over holidays, says Barrie Hudson (From This Is Wiltshire)
Search:
News
Sport
Leisure
Info
Your Say
Business
Community
Announcements
Advertise
Click2find
Buy & Sell
Dating
Cars
Homes
Jobs
Royal Wedding
Elections
Latest News
National News
Swindon Advertiser
Gazette & Herald
Wiltshire Times
Salisbury Journal
Archive
This Is Wiltshire
RSS Feed
Common sense in court over holidays, says Barrie Hudson
Updated 11:45am Tuesday 3rd May 2016 in
By Barrie Hudson
AS you might have read in your trusty Adver, two sets of Swindon parents were hauled into court the other day for taking their kids out of school for a holiday.
Thanks to an outbreak of common sense in the legal system, the charges were chucked out.
Some of you parents out there might have been left a bit bewildered by what went on.
You might be remembering how things were when you were a kid, and there was nothing unusual about being taken from class for a week or even a fortnight to go on the familys annual holiday.
All that happened in those days was that you had your holiday, came back and caught up with what youd missed by borrowing your mates notes on fractions, the Industrial Revolution or whatever.
The only time there was a problem was if your mate was the sort of kid whose notes were unreliable or non-existent because they spent lessons looking out of the window and drooling.
Even then, youd just borrow somebody elses.
You might be reflecting that in spite of your being absent in this way at least once a year throughout your education, your life hasnt been a depressing cavalcade of under-achievement
and that the kid who drooled is now the chief executive of a major public utility somewhere.
You might be asking yourself how youll be able to take your own children for a week or fortnight in the sun, what with the holiday industry gleefully and cynically ramping its prices up outside term time.
How, you might be asking yourself, can I take my kids on holiday during term time without being hauled into court like a common criminal?
The good news is that by making a few simple lifestyle changes youll be able to ensure that no official dares to interfere in your parenting choices.
Start with your home and its external appearance.
Purchase a knackered old car from your local scrapyard, put it in your driveway and remove the wheels. Take out the seats
the more torn and stained they are, the better
and place them in the front garden as lawn furniture.
Go to the supermarket and purchase the nastiest extra strong drink you can find. Dont worry, youre not going to be drinking it. Youre just going to strew the bottles and cans about in your front garden. You can pour the drink away, but be sure to do so in a place inaccessible to family pets.
Speaking of family pets, obtain a sound recording of hyenas or wolves fighting and snarling among themselves as they devour some unfortunate prey animal. Play this recording at top volume at all hours of the day and night, while occasionally screaming at the animals to shut up or you'll kill them.
Adjust your personal appearance and that of your spouse. The image you should aim for must be one of bone-headed stupidity, the self-control of a toddler and an irrational anger which constantly threatens to boil over into terrifying acts of violence.
Article continues after...
More Articles
Community radio station rescued by kind-hearted publicanCCTV image released following theft from Pewsey shopJailed: Drinker who kicked man in the head as if it was a footballPrimary school to shut due to gas supply issuesTrowbridge driver, 24, arrested after early morning crash
Try to look as if youre the sort of person who cant be bothered sending their children to school at all, never mind just taking them out of the classroom for the odd few days holiday. Although your kids probably have a 95 percent attendance rate, your image should say its about five percent.
Having put all of these measures in place, you can take your kids on holiday during term time
and rest assured that the inspectors will be too busy going after easy targets to go after you.
Read our original story about the parents' legal victory here
Drugs? Me?
A LARGE package of what might be Class A drugs has been found in a tree by a PCSO patrolling the Penhill/Pinehurst beat.
There are apparently suspicions that drug dealers were using the tree trunk as some sort of hiding place, but Im not so sure.
Has anybody observed the squirrels in the area recently?
Are they all scampering about doing normal squirrelly things, or are some of them lying flat on their backs with their paws in the air and their tails in disarray?
Are they squeaking nonsense about the intensity of colours? Are they running away from cats and dogs that arent really there?
Has Irvine Welsh been spotted in the vicinity, furiously taking notes?
Are they busily storing acorns in their nests for the winter, or are they nicking all the other squirrels acorns and trying to flog them at a certain second hand shop?
Find out about the drugs found stuffed in a tree by an alert PCSO here
A MAN admitted two charges of sexual assault when he appeared in a Swindon court the other day.
Hed attacked his horrified victim in the mistaken belief she was asleep.
The pervert was duly allowed to stroll free from the court with a suspended sentence.
What, one might ask, is so unusual about that? This is after all Swindon, where many a sex attacker is free to go about their business with nary a care in the world.
Well, part of the deviants sentence involved a three-month curfew, but this, the court heard, would have prevented him from going to the Glastonbury Festival.
The court duly suspended the curfew so as not to force the sex offender to pass up the chance to have fun.
Do you ever get the uneasy feeling that youve passed into some alternative universe?
Read our court report here
Share
Email
Print this page
Comment(1)
Showbiz news
Radiohead reappear online and tease new album with birdsong
Busted are Coming Home with a brand new song - and fans are divided
What does it take to get red-carpet ready? Amy, Kendall and Kate show off their Met Gala prep
Zayn Malik was Gigi Hadid's knight in shining armour on the Met Gala red carpet
Samia Ghadie says she is safe from the axe on Corrie
Seth Rogen wants Adele to be his neighbour and explains why he hates hugs
Comments (1)
Please log in to enable comment sorting
11:39am Tue 3 May 16
CreamHorn
says...
The world has gone mad. well put sir :)
The world has gone mad. well put sir :)
CreamHorn
Score: 0
Quote
Report this post
Log in or Register to get comment alerts.
Post a comment
Comment
Remember you are personally responsible for what you post on this site and must abide by our site terms.
Do not post anything that is false, abusive or malicious. If you wish to complain, please use the report this post link.
Post comment
Share
Email
Print this page
Comment(1)
click2find
Block list
Search
Jobs
Find your next job now in Wiltshire and beyond
Search Now
Dating
Why not make a date in Wiltshire?
Search Now
Homes
Homes for sale and to let in Wiltshire
Search Now
Cars
Cars for sale in Wiltshire and beyond
Search Now
News
Sport
Leisure
Info
Your Say
Business
Community
Announcements
Advertise
Click2find
Buy & Sell
Dating
Cars
Homes
Jobs
Cookie Policy
Contact Us
Subscribe
Photo Sales
Advertise
AdChoices
Archive
Topics
Announcements
Site Map
Exchange and Mart
Two's Company Dating
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Copyright 2001-2016
This site is part of Newsquest's audited local newspaper network
A Gannett Company
Newsquest (Oxfordshire & Wiltshire) Ltd, Loudwater Mill, Station Road, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire. HP10 9TY |3223511| Registered in England & Wales
Newsquest printing
About cookies
We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience.
By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies.
Find out more about the cookies we use.
I agree