
Lawmakers were supposed to go home more than a week ago. But until they pass a fiscal plan, theyll need to find a new home in Juneau. The capitol building must be evacuated by Friday because of construction.
In an interview Monday, House Speaker Mike Chenault said relocating in Juneau is the Legislatures best alternative.
If we shut down and move to Anchorage or move to Fairbanks or move to someplace else, then its going to take days or possibly a week or so to get spun back up, Chenault said. And Id just as soon use that time trying to get to a conclusion this session.
On Monday afternoon, legislators toured the Bill Ray Center, the Legislative Council and Rules committees first choice. The building could house most legislative offices, but lawmakers will still have to decide where to hold floor sessions. A gym inside the state-owned Terry Miller Legislative Office Building, behind the Capitol, is under consideration for that purpose.
The halls of the Capitol building were quiet Monday, except for the hum of construction crews. Committee rooms sat empty. Not a single hearing was held.
It just takes more time than most people realize and so a lot of those meetings are going on around the building, Chenault said, adding that those private discussions can make the road to compromise smoother.Sometimes you have more frank discussions if youre not on the camera. People will allow themselves to talk about things that maybe they wouldnt if they were on camera.
Lawmakers are still facing complex decisions on changes to the oil tax regime, a restructuring of the Permanent Fund and the first income tax in more than 30 years.
Members of each body are all over the map on each issue.
I disagree with my majority members and I disagree with my minority members, and I think that illustrates the complication of this legislation, Majority Leader Rep. Charisse Millett told reportersof House Bill 247,a bill to restructure oil tax credits.
We have more things on our plate now than really I think any other legislature has had maybe since the Exxon Valdez oil spill, said Rep. Lance Pruitt, who said lawmakers must think long-term this session.We dont want to find ourselves in five, six, 10 years finding that the decisions we made now mean we may not have the gas in southcentral, we may not have the oil to pay for state government at that time, that people may have left the state, and we have a brain drain because they went elsewhere looking for jobs.
An omnibus criminal justice reform bill, Senate Bill 91, has taken center stage this week in the House Finance Committee. While it is not part of the governors fiscal plan and would do little to solve the states budget gap this year, Chenault said it is a priority because of its long-term impact on the state.
I think its important because its a long-term fix, and the sooner that pieces of that can be implemented, the better off well be as a state in the long-term, he said.
The House Finance Committee was scheduled to take up amendments on the bill Monday, but canceled the meeting until a new draft of the bill is prepared.
Its a 200-section bill, so its pretty extensive and pretty complicated. And you want to make sure its right whenever you vote on it and whenever you pass it, Chenault said.
He said that draft is tying up the Legislatures legal services section and delaying a new draft on oil tax credit reform, the source of a stalemate this session.

