
Tension as police torture boy to death.
Posted By: Patience Ogboon: May 03, 2016In: Community MirrorNo Comments Print Email
Facebook1Twitter0Google+0LinkedIn0There was palpable tension at the Denton Police Station, Lagos State police command over the weekend as angry residents stormed the station to protest the alleged killing of a 19-year-old boy Gafar Ayoola by policemen attached to the station. According to the family of the deceased, policemen attached to the station,arrested the deceased on Friday morning about 8am at the Oyingbo area of the state while he was running errands for his mother. The family source stated that the policemen took the deceased to thier station where they allegedly tortured him to death . Suliaman Ayoola, the father of the boy who spoke with our Correspondent over the phone said he was shock over the demise of son. He said
I got a call from one of my sons that the policemen from the Denton police station led by one policeman identified as Taiwo arrested my son for wandering at the Oyingbo area of the state where he had gone on an errand for his mother. I ran to the station the next day from my house at Okoafo Badagry to the Denton police station . I met the policemen at the counter and asked them to let me see my son but they told me that my son was never arrested and brought to thier station. I asked them to let me see Inspector Taiwo and they said there was no Policeman by that name in thier station. I asked to see the DPO( Divisional Police Officer) SP Saheed but they told me to go the SCID Panti to look for him there but I refused.The policemen brought out thier entry book and I checked but my sons name was not there. The next day ,I went back to the station and met alot of people from EbuteMetta had stormed the station. They told me my son has been tortured to death on Friday night . They were ready to burn the station as they demanded for justice. I had to pacify them. Later ,I met with the DPO and he told me what happened. He said we should forgive the police over the demise of our son, pacified the others and we left ,he alleged. Mr Ayoola is appealing to the police authority to investigate the killingof his son. The police at Denton police station killed my son by torturing him to death. He was a barber. I learnt that after they tortured him at the station and he could not breathe, the officers informed the DP0 that my son was dying but he told them that they should keep him in the cell that he was pretending. They left him and he died . The police after ensuring that he was dead, took his corpse to the hospital where he was pronounced dead on arrival. The police took his corpse to the mortuary. I am appealing to the government and to the authority in the police to assist me. I dont want the police to continue kiling innocent people, he lamented.

