
Jurors Monday convicted an Orangeville, Ont. man of first-degree murder and offering an indignity to a human body in the brutal slaying of another young man from his home town in a London hotel room in 2013, stuffing his body parts into two hockey bags.
The verdicts came down hours after the nine men and three women retired to deliberate following a three-week trial in which they heard bizarre
and grisly
evidence involving the accused, 22-year-old James McCullough, and how he and Alex Fraser took a cab ride to London in September 2013 that ended with the 20-year-old Fraser dead in the hotel room and McCullough calling and telling a 911 operator he was unarmed at the hotel with the body of a full-on dead person with him.
McCullough is to be sentenced Tuesday.
In her closing argument to the jury Monday, defence lawyer Lynda Lamb conceded McCullough could be found guilty of the indignity charge.
He clearly did the deed, she said, when referring to Frasers dismembered body.
Before Superior Court Justice Renee Pomerance final charge to the jury, both Lamb and assistant Crown attorney Meredith Gardiner presented their final arguments.
Lamb asked the jury to consider a manslaughter conviction and to believe McCulloughs evidence that he freaked out after Fraser made sexual advances on him.
This is not a case of premeditated murder, she said.
She said there was no plan and that the two men had come from Orangeville to London by cab to do a home invasion, party and go shopping.
Getting a hotel room was pure luck, she said.
If this was a plan, she argued, McCullough would have brought a saw, perhaps, not a knife, to cut up the body.
Disturbing rap lyrics and admissions to a psychiatric nurse that he fantasized about killing and eating someone are not evidence of premeditation, she said.
She called the death rap lyrics a school boys inept attempt to write this kind of stuff, nothing more.
McCullough, she said, had a knife because he was a mid-level drug dealer and needed it for protection.
He clearly did the deed.
If there was a plan, she said, there would have been no reason for McCullough to order the cab to turn back and get the big bags and some beer from his house, she said.
When Fraser went after him, Lamb said McCullough responded with a frenzied attack, then blacked out after two of the 27 stab wounds.
She asked the jury to think about why Frasers penis was severed. It was a reaction to and very much related to the attack on Jamess manhood, she said.
His fibs to the police are more evidence there was no plan, she said, because he would have been better prepared.
During his testimony, Lamb said her client was passive, not aggressive. He was low-key. He readily admitted all the fibs he told.
And she argued he didnt wilt under cross-examination.
Mr. McCullough did do a terrible thing. He stabbed his friend to death, she said.
After again asking the jury to consider a manslaughter verdict, she said the case was one of the most difficult in my career.
Thank you from the bottom of this little defence counsels heart, she said at the end.
RelatedOntario man accused of dismembering friend planned getaway to Australia after killing, Crown allegesI dont remember dismembering: Accused testifies in grisly London, Ont. murder trialLondon murder trial hears gruesome details from autopsy on 20-year-old victim
Gardiner had a very different take of the evidence and meticulously went through both the broader and the more precise elements of the Crowns case.
She called the Crowns case overwhelming.
She reminded the jury a premeditated plan does not need to be perfect.
She said McCulloughs evidence was a concocted story told by a man who has never told the truth about what happened to Alex Fraser.
Gardiner reminded the jury that McCullough kept up a series of lies both to a Fanshawe College acquaintance and to the the police.
She asked them to look closely at the disturbing rap lyrics that talk about murder, dismemberment and cannibalism.
A working visa to Australia was a perfect opportunity, she said, for McCullough to act out on his fantasy, then leave the country before the body was found.
Fraser, she said, was
perfect victim because McCullough knew he would drink until he would pass out. The fact that he was drunk made him very vulnerable, she said.
McCullough used an alias, Josh Chilldess, at the hotel and was coherent enough to order a cab, pay the $320 fare in cash and get a hotel room.
His real priority and his only priority was to get to a hotel and act out his fantasy, Gardiner said.
The next day, he was able to get a phone card from a local Petro-Canada gas station and get instructions how to use it.
He ate two fast-food meals in the hotel room while Frasers remains sat in the bags near the beds.
McCullough didnt express any remorse about Frasers death until he was asked about it directly by Gardiner in cross-examination.
He didnt say anything to his uncle in a phone call because he hadnt thought of it yet, she said.
You cant believe a single thing James McCullough has said in this courtroom, she said.
There was no planned home invasion, she said, It was to kill Alex and it was the accuseds plan alone.
Gardiner went through many other pieces of evidence that didnt square with McCulloughs testimony. She called his version nonsensical.
She pointed to the small bone fragments found in a Ziploc bag in McCulloughs backpack that she said was a trophy, a souvenir of his fantasy.
James McCullough was a calculated predator . . . He committed these offences for no other reason than he wanted to, she said.

