The allnew
CBS News App
for Android
for iPad
for iPhone
Fully redesigned. Featuring CBSN, 24/7livenews.
Get the App
CBS News
CBS Evening News
CBS This Morning
48 Hours
60 Minutes
Sunday Morning
Face The Nation
CBSN
GO
Log In
Log In
Join CBSNews.com
Sign in with
CBS Moneywatch
Markets
Money
Work
Small Business
Retirement
Tech
Trending
Video
Get
Trending Videos CBSN Live
MoneyWatch
Puerto Rico's debt crisis worsens; Carnival Cruise...
CBS Evening News
Teacher walk-off the tip of the iceberg for Detroi...
CBS Evening News
Trump and Cruz fight to win Indiana's delegates
CBS Evening News
Hillary Clinton previews Bill's role in her admini...
CBS Evening News
"Asian tiger" mosquito could carry Zika virus to m...
CBS Evening News
Prince's relatives in court over estate
CBS Evening News
Is Malia Obama's "gap year" a growing trend?
CBS Evening News
Hiking team returns to Everest for first time sinc...
CBS Evening News
Cruise ship makes historic voyage from U.S. to Cub...
Markets
Pfizer tops forecasts on higher sales, lower taxes
Markets
Global stocks mixed, European indexes down in early trading
Markets
Sumner Redstone must testify in his competency case
Markets
Some nonprofit hospitals are among the most profitable
Markets
Drowning in debt, Puerto Rico calls on Congress for help
Markets
U.S. stocks rise after rocky few days
Markets
Technology aims at making guns smarter
Markets
Nebraska town rejects plan to create 1,100 jobs
Markets
Halliburton and Baker Hughes ditch $34B merger
Markets
Buffett still likes big stakes in Coke, American Express
Markets
European stocks mixed after Asia falls
Markets
"Sell in May" has some extra oomph this year
AP
May 3, 2016, 7:59 AM
Pfizer tops forecasts on higher sales, lower taxes
Comment
Share
Tweet
Stumble
Email
Pfizer (PFE) easily beat Wall Street expectations for the first quarter as the biggest U.S. drugmaker's net income jumped 27 percent due to higher sales and a lower tax bill. The company raised its 2016 financial forecasts, citing its strong operational performance in the quarter and an improved business outlook.Its shares surged almost 3 percent in premarket trading.Just four weeks after dropping its record $160 billion deal to buy fellow drugmaker Allergan Plc and move its headquarters on paper to Ireland to reduce its taxes, New York-based Pfizer Inc. on Tuesday reported first-quarter net income of $3.02 billion, or 49 cents per share. That was up from $2.38 billion, or 38 cents per share, in 2015's first quarter.Excluding one-time items, adjusted profit in the latest quarter was 67 cents per share, 12 cents better that the 55 cents expected by analysts surveyed by Zacks Investment Research.The maker of Viagra and pain treatment Lyrica posted revenue of $13.01 billion in the period, up 20 percent and well above the $11.97 billion analysts expected.Sales got a lift in part by changes in currency exchange rates and by revenue from Pfizer's $15 billion purchase last September of injectable drugmaker and infusion device maker Hospira. That deal gave Pfizer a leading position in the global market for injectable drugs, including a new class of lower-cost biotech drugs known as biosimilars.Pfizer said it now expects 2016 earnings in the range of $2.38 to $2.48 per share, up from its prior forecast of $2.20 to $2.30. Pfizer forecast revenue in the range of $51 billion to $53 billion, $2 billion higher than its last forecast.In premarket trading, Pfizer shares rose 90 cents, or 2.7 percent, to $33.70."We began the year with very strong operational performance across both our Innovative and Established businesses and this has served as a key driver of an increase in both our revenue and earnings-per-share guidance for the remainder of the year," Ian Read, chief executive and chairman of the board, said in a statement. ""In addition, we have made excellent progress integrating the legacy Hospira operations and now expect to achieve $1.0 billion of Hospira cost savings by 2018, 25 (percent) more than our initial cost savings target of $800 million."Pfizer shares have risen nearly 2 percent since the beginning of the year, while the Standard & Poor's 500 index has climbed almost 2 percent.
2016 The Associated Press. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.
Comment
Share
Tweet
Stumble
Email
Featured in Moneywatch
20 of the coolest places to retire in the world
Find out what activities and attractions make these 20 cities and town some of the best places to retire around the world
9 secret ways to save money at Home Depot
If you're a Home Depot shopper, your savings can add up fast if you use these nine secret tips
Popular
Market Data
Watch CBSN Live
Trump Voter Confronts Cruz: We Don't Want You
Ted Cruz Doubles Down On Indiana Primary
Ted Cruz's Last Ditch Effort To Stop Trump In Indiana
Trump Supporter Confronts Ted Cruz
Donald Trump: Ted Cruz Is Choking Like A Dog
Latest Features
Pfizer tops forecasts on higher sales, lower taxes
Global stocks mixed, European indexes down in early trading
How Yelp is weeding out fake reviews
When markets aren't perfect, government can help
When farm to table is really fraud to table
Market News
Moneywatch Spotlight
A butcher's 6 secrets for saving money on meat
Best and worst things to buy in May
How to quit your job and travel for two years
9 reasons you should retire to a tiny house
7 factors that will determine Prince's real worth
Stock Watchlist
New Android App
For your Android phone and tablet, download the FREE redesigned app, featuring CBSN, live 24/7 news.
Download
Quotes delayed at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Interactive Data.
Terms & Conditions.
Powered and implemented by Interactive Data Managed Solutions News provided by The Associated Press.
Company fundamental data provided by Zacks.
CBSNews.com
Site Map
Help
Contact Us
CBS Bios
Careers
Internships
Development Programs
CBS Interactive
Privacy Policy
Ad Choice
Terms of Use
Mobile User Agreement
About CBS
Advertise
Closed Captioning
CBS News Store
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
RSS
Email Newsletters
YouTube
CBS Radio News
CBS Local
CBS News
Copyright
2016 CBS Interactive Inc.All rights reserved.
Search