English
English
Deutsch
Nederlands
Login or register
Toggle navigation
Training Press Releases
News
Browse news by category
Assessment
Awards
Contracts and case studies
Education
E-learning
Events
Financial statements
General
Human resources
IT training
Learning technology
Mobile
People
Research and papers
Social learning
Soft skills
Browse news by events
CIPD Learning & Development Show
Sign up
Register
Contact
More Events
Login or register
English
English
Deutsch
Nederlands
Home
News
The Springboard Consultancy
2016
Get updates
e-mail
Twitter
RSS
Press release
Karen Daly-Gherabi becomes Managing Director of The Springboard Consultancy
Barnstaple, Devon, UK03 May 2016Training Press ReleasesThe Springboard Consultancy
Karen Daly-Gherabi has become Managing Director of The Springboard Consultancy, a UK-based international training company specialising in women's development issues.
Karen Daly-Gherabi, the new Managing Director of The Springboard Consultancy.After a successful career as a senior officer in the British Army, promoting excellence, development, achievement, and diversity, Karen spent 12 years working for The British Council, creating international opportunities, building trust and engagement through education, training and cultural relations. She succeeds the companys founding joint CEOs, Liz Willis OBE and Jenny Daisley OBE.
Liz Willis commented, Jenny and I are delighted with Karens appointment and wish her every success. Shes already familiar with the company and, as a client, has been an enthusiastic advocate of our programmes.
Through the British Council, Karen introduced the award-winning Springboard Womens Development Programme into the Middle East. Indeed, Karen has first-hand experience of the positive impact the Springboard programme has had on more than 17,000 women, along with the network of trainers, across the Middle East and North Africa.
The Springboard Consultancys Springboard Womens Development programme enables women to identify the clear, practical and realistic steps that they want to take to make a better world for themselves at work and home, while building the practical skills and confidence to take these steps. The programme is delivered
currently in 45 countries - over a three month period, through an extensive network of licensed local trainers and, so far, has been used by over 240,000 women around the world.
According to Karen, who took up her new post on 3rd May, The Springboard Consultancy is a fantastic company which promotes diversity in personal development - especially for women but including both genders - with a range of products that covers the complete work lifecycle, from pre-work to the end of working life. Its wonderful to be part of such transformational development, which enables people to take control of their own futures.
About The Springboard Consultancy
The Springboard Consultancy(SBC) is an international training company, with a proven track record in work and personal development training, particularly addressing women's development issues
especially via its award-winning 'Springboard Women's Development Programme'. Its core business is training and licensing trainers to deliver award-winning development courses
to people of both genders and all ages - via an international network of professional licensed trainers in locations around the world. In this way, over 240,000 people have used its programmes and over 1,300 trainers have been trained in 42 countries around the world.
SBC has developed a reputation for creativity, innovation and quality, balanced with down-to-earth pragmatism and good value. It believes that everyone is born to shine and that life circumstances and lack of skills and opportunities often prevent that happening, to the detriment of all. It uses training to enable everyone, especially women, to develop themselves further - benefitting the person, their employer, family and community.
News and information providers and publishers may freely use information from the press releases within their own services and outputs. Where an entire press release is copied or significant parts of it copied, then "Training Press Releases" should remain clearly quoted as indicated at the start of each press release.
This news story is a press release from the above company and does not represent the views of Training Press Releases. Please ensure that you read ourlegal notices.
Share this page
E-mail this story
E-Mail to a friend
Follow this company
Get updates from The Springboard Consultancy
RSS newsfeeds
Latest newsKaren Daly-Gherabi becomes Managing Director of The Springboard Consultancy 03 May 2016The University of Bath introduces Springboards Sprint programme for female undergraduates30 Mar 2016See all news from The Springboard Consultancy
Company profileThe Springboard Consultancy (SBC) is an international training company, with a proven track record in work and personal development training, particularly addressing women's development issues
especially via its award-winning 'Springboard Women's Development Programme'.full company profile
Media contactsGeorgina Pullen
Website
E-Mail
Bob LittleWebsite
Contact Bob Little
top of page
Media professionals
Follow a learning provider
Follow a learning event
Get updates by e-mail
Syndicate news
Learning providers
Send news to the media
Get a FREE profile listing
How it works
Sign-up
How we help
Media professionals
Learning providers
Writing press releases
Publicity consultancy
Terms
Submissions policy
Privacy policy
Legal notices
Website content
copyright 20102015 Training Press Releases |
Legal notices |
Website credits
Home
Sign up
Register
Contact