Login
Login with Facebook
Login with Google+
Login with Twitter
Login with Independent
Keep me signed in with social media
Remember me
Forgot your password?
Register
3 May 2016, Tuesday
RSS
Login/Register
News
Interviews
Most Read
Panama Papers
My Home
World
News
Oddities
Debate
Editor's Blog
Blogs & Opinions
Polls
Sports
Football
Tennis
F1
Waterpolo
Transfers
Others
Business
News
World
Financial
Company News
Arts
Stage
Books
Music
Cinema
TV
Crossword
Sudoku
Arcade
Life
Human
Health
Food
Education
Growing Up
Motoring
Fashion
Videos
Latest Videos
Newspaper
Leader
Letters
Opinions
Cartoon
Lifestyle & Culture
Supplements
E-Paper
Magazines
Taste & Flair
First
A & H
I DO
Motoring
Vamp
Malta Business Review
Jobs In Malta
DEALTODAY
DEALTODAY
Property Pricing
Home
>
Sports
>
Football
>
'King Claudio': Ranieri hailed as a hero at home in Italy
'King Claudio': Ranieri hailed as a hero at home in Italy after leading Leicester to title
Associated Press
Tuesday, 3 May 2016, 13:53
Last update: about 43 minutes ago
The Italian Premier called it "insane." The country's national sports newspaper called him "King Claudio."
Claudio Ranieri was hailed as a national hero at home in Italy after coachingLeicesterto a highly improbable English Premier League title.
"King Claudio," read the headline on the front page of Gazzetta dello Sport on Tuesday, above a statuesque image of Ranieri as the Roman emperor Claudius.
Leicestersecured its first top-flight title without playing on Monday after second-place Tottenham drew at Chelsea 2-2.
Leicesterwas playing in the second tier only two years ago, came close to be relegated again last year, and started this season as a 5,000-1 outsider for the title.
For the first time in its 132-year history,Leicesteris champion of England.
"It's the greatest achievement in the history of English football, and it was led by an Italian," Matteo Renzi, the Italian Premier, tweeted, adding a hashtag message of "insane" in Italian.
The 64-year-old Ranieri was known as a journeyman manager who never won any major titles in a career that saw him bounce from club to club, rarely staying more than a couple of seasons in one.
Before signing withLeicester, Ranieri had an embarrassingly short reign as the coach of Greece, and was fired following a loss at home to the Faroe Islands.
"I always thought that sooner or later I would win a league title," Ranieri told Italian state TV Rai late Monday. "I'm the same man who was sent away by Greece.
"The only dedication I want to make to everyone is to tell them to believe and give things a try, not only in football but in every area of life."
The son of a butcher and raised in Rome's working-class neighborhood of Testaccio, where the slaughterhouses were, Ranieri played briefly for his hometown club of Roma before spending most of his career as a defender for southern club Catanzaro.
As a manager, Ranieri won an Italian Cup at Fiorentina, the French second division with Monaco, and some other minor titles, but had never claimed a major domestic championship.
A Gazzetta editorial defined Ranieri as "The Normal One," a reference to his nemesis Jose Mourinho, the self-proclaimed "The Special One."
Earlier Monday, Ranieri flew to Rome to have lunch with his 96-year-old mother.
"He's one of us, one of the best of us," the Gazzetta said.
Ranieri was also praised by his peers.
"It's a masterpiece," said Inter Milan coach Roberto Mancini, who led Manchester City to the English title in 2012. "An incredible and probably unrepeatable victory - obtained against actual battleships."
Added Massimiliano Allegri, the manager of Italian champion Juventus: "It shows how much the Italian school of coaches is worth."
don't miss
Football
Bayern Munich counting on home strength
Watch: Leicester win English title for
Leicester's Jamie Vardy wins English
Juventus celebrate Serie A title with
Leicester miss first chance to clinch
Bayern's Bundesliga title celebrations
Newcastle win to climb out of
Watch - Updated (2): Valletta draw
open
Terms of Use
Advertising Rates
Contact Us
Designed and developed by Alert eBusiness
Independent Online. 2016. Standard Publications Ltd. Registered Office: Standard House, Birkirkara Hill, St. Julians, STJ 1149, Malta.