
Troops kill 3, nab 9 insurgents in foxholes.
Nigerian troops have killed three Boko Haram insurgents, and captured nine others, hiding in foxholes, as they cleared more villages in Borno State of terrorists. A statement by the Nigerian Army through the Director of Army Public Relations, DAPR, Colonel Sani Usman, said troops of 22 Brigade Garrison in Operation LAFIYA DOLE, on Sunday, cleared four villages of terrorists hiding in the area. Usman said the operation was in compliance with the military high commands directive which is to ensure that all villages and towns are cleared of the remnants of Boko Haram insurgents The terrorists hibernating in Cinga, Mallum Maja, Bosuma and Murye villages, were armed with dangerous weapons and have been terrorising the communities. During the operations, three Boko Haram terrorists were killed, while nine of them, who tried hiding in foxholes and dugouts, were identified and captured alive. Items recovered from them include nine Dane guns, three machetes, one bow with arrows, six motor cycles used by the terrorists to ferry slaughtered cow meats to their members. Other items recovered include one tricycle, 4 x Tiger Generators and one solar panel. The troops also recovered 300 herds of cattle rustled by the Boko Haram terrorists from Fulani herdsmen and handed them over to their rightful owners, he stated. Similarly, he said 400 persons held hostage by the terrorists were rescued and set free. He stated further that the Army had not sustained any casualty to troops and equipment and troops morale remained very high. In a related development, officials of the Nigerian military intelligence have arrested a suspected killer of Maj. Gen. Mohammed Shuwa (rtd). Shuwa was murdered in his residence in Maiduguri, Borno State by suspected Boko Haram terrorists on November 2, 2012. The retired military officer was the first General Officer Commanding, GOC, 1Division. Usman, who confirmed the arrest, said the suspect would be paraded in Kano where he was arrested. Meanwhile, Chief of Defence Staff, CDS, Gen. Abayomi Olonisakin, yesterday said the military will wipe out the remnants of Boko Haram terrorists from Nigeria in a short while. Olonisakin stated this while speaking with newsmen during a visit to Maiduguri. He said his visit was aimed at getting first class information on the anti-terrorism war. I want Nigerians to know that we are determined to wipe out the terrorists from our land. And from the Sambisa axis, we are really committed to ensure that we clear them as soon as possible. I am here for a routine visit with the Service Chiefs. I have come to appraise the level of performance in the operation and see how we can actually address some issues on the operation. The operation is actually to wipe out, to clear Sambisa, that is Operation clamp down is to clear Sambisa of the terrorists, he said. Olonisakin said the invasion of Sambisa forest, which began about five days ago, had been most successful. The operation is on course. Like I said, it is five days gone now. The little issues being encountered by the troops will be addressed so that the momentum of the operation can be sustained, he said. Olonisakin said the military had acquired some anti-landmine equipment to ensure the success of the operation. We have some landmine of course; it is an issue we have been faced with in this operation. We have some counter Improvised Explosive Device (IED) equipment and other indigenous devices that will be used to ensure that the operation goes as planned, he added. The CDS also assured that the military was determined to rescue the abducted Chibok girls. The rescue operation for the Chibok girls is also part of the Operation clamp down. There are five little operations within the operation: the rescue operation is one of the operations. Every person that had been abducted by Boko Haram terrorists will be rescued, including the Chibok girls, he said. He stated that the military will also clear the remnants of Boko Haram terrorists from all parts of the North East. The operation like I said is to clear our land of the terrorists; we take the operations one after the other. We will move into those areas where we believe they are hiding and flush them out, he said.

