
Thycotic Debuts Free Unix and Linux Privileged Accounts Discovery Tool.

WASHINGTON, May 3, 2016 /PRNewswire/ --Thycotic, a provider ofprivileged account management(PAM) solutions for more than 3,500 organizations worldwide, today announced the immediate availability of their new and free Privileged Accounts Discovery for Unix tool. Privileged Accounts Discovery for Unix provides detailed reports for all Unix and Linux privileged accounts throughout an enterprise at a singular moment
enabling businesses to view the vulnerability of its privileged passwords as a first step towards security compliance and control. The free solution is available at http://bit.ly/1qQ8Ce2.
Privileged Unix accounts are a concern because of their enormous power and simultaneous lack of accountability. In Unix and Linux, privilege can be established two ways: by using a root account that is a full-access pass on the network, or by using a limited user account and adding sudo access to perform specific commands. Both of these methods present security and compliance problems including managing who has access across multiple Unix/Linux systems and controlling the use of the root accounts. Utilizing Thycotic's Privileged Accounts Discovery for Unix, IT administrators can discover potential backdoor accounts, audit ages of privileged passwords and find non-expiring privileged accounts without exposing passwords or touching end-user accounts.
"In addition to our recently released free Windows tool, Thycotic's Privileged Account Discovery for Unix gives enterprises a greater vision and understanding of their Unix and Linux account landscape without compromising security," Jonathan Cogley, founder and chief technology officer at Thycotic. "This free and simple solution avoids the need to install complex software, so enterprises can easily take their first steps at creating a secure business on the right foot. Enterprises simply need to download and run it."
Privileged Accounts Discovery for Unix creates an executive summary PDF report that highlights Unix and Linux privileged account password health and shows how many are expired. The solution also tracks virtual machines running on hypervisors, without generating large amounts of network traffic or locking out accounts. Privileged Account Discovery for Unix's key features include:
Simplicity - Just run once per IP address range and the Privileged Account Discovery tool does the rest. It generates executive ready reports and a spreadsheet inventory of the accounts it found for the IT team.
Privacy - No privileged passwords are ever reverse engineered or discovered by the tool. The executive summary aggregates data and only account names are shown in the inventory. Once reports are generated and the tool is closed, no sensitive information is stored or ever reported back to Thycotic.
Co-Branding - Partners or solution providers in the security industry can leverage this tool as part of a risk assessment offering for customers. Add a logo and company name and provide a valuable privileged account report that introduces or enhances capabilities to customers.
Usable Data - Thycotic Privileged Account Discovery for Unix provides data that can be used right away. Reports for the executive team and lists of where privileged accounts are used for security and IT administrators.
Security - Find passwords that have never been changed or violate company's security or compliance policies. Find the vulnerable passwords and backdoor accounts before the attackers do.
Import - The CSV report produced is importable into Secret Server Privileged Account Management solution.
More information on Thycotic's free Privileged Accounts Discovery for Unix can be found at http://bit.ly/1qQ8Ce2. To learn more about Thycotic and their PAM solutions, please visit the company'swebsiteand follow Thycotic on Twitter at@Thycotic.
About ThycoticThycotic, a global leader in IT security, is the fastest growing provider of Privilege Management solutions that protect an organization's most valuable assets from cyber-attacks and insider threats.Thycotic securesprivileged account accessformore than 3,500 organizations worldwide, including Fortune 500 enterprises.Thycotic's award winning Privilege Management Security solutions minimize privileged credential risk, limits user privileges and controls applications on endpoints and servers.Thycotic was founded in 1996 with corporate headquarters in Washington, D.C. and global offices in the U.K. and Australia. For more information, please visit www.thycotic.com.

