Movies & TV
Science & Tech
Big on the Internet
Store
Videos
Comics
Space
Gaming
Contributors
About
TMS Merch
Search
Menu
Ghostbusters Shows Men Believe in Representation (When It Applies to Them)
Things We Saw Today: Radiohead Erases Itself from the Internet
Answer the CallSubscribe to The Mary Sue
Margot Robbie on Harley Quinn's (Lack of) Pants
Mattel Honors Misty Copeland With New 'Shero' Barbie
Sailor Moon Newbie Recaps: Episodes 176 & 177
by Dee Hogan | 8:25 am, May 3rd, 2016
Im sensing somedefinite parallels between this season andSailor Moon S, where some aggressive-mindedrealists (or perhaps cynicists)takeup residence inJuuban and have their methods challenged by the local idealistic sailor team. The Star Lights arent quite as hostile toward the Moonies as Haruka and Michiru were (yet, anyway), but theyre having similar arguments and changing in similar ways.
Sailor Moon(and a lot of magical girl shows) has always been something of a response to the idea that defeating the bad guys onlymeans punching them in the face really hard. Sometimes it means that, and Mako is happy to oblige when it is, but more often than not its about protection and empathy. This is a seriesthat believes our heroes should be people whocure evil instead of simply killingit or locking it away, and at no time is that more apparent than when they butt heads withtheir fellow vigilantes.
Is it a romantic notion?Maybe a little. But as Ami points out this week, romanticism and dreams help drive us towards discoveries and change, whether thats finding a comet or a new way to solve problems.So maybe a little romanticism isnt such a bad thing.
The Recaps
Episode 176
Sailor Starlight Express
The original episode title for this one wasFighters Secret Identity Revealed, so get excited, gang, cause someone in our cast isgonna find out that Seiya and Star Fighter are the same person! Whos stoked? IM STOKED!
But before that, the conflict! Three Lights is a triple threat (ba-dum tish) set to prove they can shine just as brightly on stage in an 80s-tastic musical as they can in a pop song, but their exacting director Gushiken Akane thinks Seiya needs to do itonce more, with feeling!Her not-so-constructive criticism (you suck and your hair is stupid! more or less) has Seiya so frustrated that he bombs his math test. But hey, at least hes in good company!
Heavy line art for heavy moods.
Despite Reis best efforts (seriously, girl, just transfer already), the trio opt out of agroup study session, so the gals say psssh to their own homework (getting held back a grade is NBD when youve got a Time Lord on your team!) and sneak in to the musical rehearsal. Akane rightfully scolds them for bringing their fans to a private practice, but the dunk-on-Seiya-a-thon gets derailedwhenplot twist!Rei recognizes Akane as Sister Angela, a nun who works at her school.
Seiyathinks he has the high ground now, but not so fast, kiddo, Sister Angela lives atop Mount freaking Fuji. Yes, she has a secret alter-ego, but she gives her all in everything she does, and HE cant say the same. She wants him to be as passionate in leggings as he is in power suits, and she can tell he isnt right now. In a wonderful little exchange, Seiya admits that he doesnt like her one bit, and she says thats fine as long as he respects her and gives her his best.
Then theyre both all:
And get to dancin! Theirrehearsal is cut short by a zoot suit riot (RIOT!) when Sailor Iron Mouse appears on the scene tosnag astar seed. Akane turns into the phage Sailor Director andattacksSeiya. OH NO, HOW EVER WILL AN ORDINARY HUMAN FEND OFF HER ATTACKS.
gasp. oh my. but how could this be.
As the episode title promised, Star Fighters true identity is at last revealed! to the audience! gee, thanks,Sailor Moon
(In less predictable news, thanks to some color-coded silhouettes, we learn that the Star Lights do indeed physically changewhen they transform. And they dont even needto be dunked in cold water or use their Celestial powersto do it!)
Fighterbusts out his Star SRS BSNS Laser and knocks Akane for a spin, but Sailors Moon and Mars arrive before he can (reluctantly) deliver the killing the blow. Rei has to hold him at arrow-point to give Usagi time to cure Akane, but cure her she does. A grateful Fighter hopes theyre not enemies, and maybe eventhinks Sailor Moon is the droid hes been looking for. Either way, that crush of his aint going away anytime soon.
Episode 177 Sailor Starry Night
At the bottom of my notes for Episode 176, I scribbled I wanna spend time with the other Lights too, dang it And lo,my grumbles echoedback in time 20 years and wereheard by theSM staff! So lets leave Seiya gloating over his perfect math make-up test and hang out with Taiki for a while, shall we?
Hes the brains of our new operation, so smart hes matching Ami score-for-score, and stealing her study buddies to boot. He confuses studying with copying, which leads to some UsaMina shenanigans, butour shenanigans are soon eclipsed by Mr. Amanogawa Wataru (henceforth known as Mr. A), a teacher at Juuban High who also happenedto discovera comet in his youth.
Given that our last scientist discovered a SENTIENT UNIVERSE, this is downright dull in comparison.
He waxes romantical about his Francoise (known in scientific circles as Watarus Comet)sweeping past earth again for the first time in 15 years, and asks top students and local astronomy buffs Ami and Taiki if theyd like to come over to his houseand watch it.Mr. Ais not a creeper, but this request is still kinda creepy.
Taiki and Ami dont notice because theyre too busy butting heads over whether theres a place for romanticism and dreams in science. Geez, Taiki, where did you transfer in from,Mugen Academy?(Continuity burn. Boom.) The head-butting continues, until finally Taikipoints out that its supposed to rain anyway, so they wont be able to see this dreamy comet anyway.But Ami BELIEVES that the skies will clear, so:
Asforecasted, the rain rain rain comes down down down in rushing rising rivulets. Optimistic Ami goes to Mr. As house anyway (still not a creeper, butstill kinda creepy), and Taiki eventuallydecides to do the same becauseAmis passion haswell, maybe not melted, but certainly poked athis cynical lil heart. And hey, perfect timing, cause Iron Mouse has come for a stargazersseed!
Mouse isbummed that Mr. A isnt the hottie from his 15-year-old photo (hey, if youre interested in a cute professor, theres this Tomoe guy I could introduce you to), but snatches his seed anyway, leaving Ami to plead with the new phage
You, uh really phoned it in on the monster names this week, didntcha, writing staff?
Taiki sees Ami under attack and transforms into Star Maker (wut, him too, whod have guessed it?), but Ami knocks Mr. Aout of the way before he can get hit with a Gentle Uterus at full power. She believes they can turn him human again and wont let Taiki kill him!Andby believe, she means two yearsof fighting crimehave taught me that Usagi will be coming around that cornerrightaboutnnnnnow.
AWW, SNAP! You just been inductive reasoned, son!
Usagi cant deal with all this TEACHING, so Taiki helps her outby hitting Mr. A with a Gentler Uterus, weakening him enough that she can restore his star seedjust in time for the skies to clear. Heyyy,now all the girls and Taiki can see the beautiful Francoise stream across the sky together!
And the moral of the story is: Ami is always right. I mean, Treasure you dreams!
(But really, the first one. Its the first one.)
This, That, and the Other
I have to keep reminding myself that Usagi cant exactly pop onto Skype for some face time with her bae,so its notthat weird that she hasnt realized Mamoru has exploded yet. Its still alittle weird, but its notthat weird.
Does anybody else snap along to the Star Lights entrance theme? Just me?
Taikis whole the power of living people creates stars thing is probably relevant world-building, butfrom Mr. As perspective he looks like the kid in high school biowho insists thatJesus hung out withdinosaurs.
Yes, I went back to referring to each of the Star Lights as he instead of they. The trioall present and seem to identify as menboth inpublic and private, so it feltmore respectful this way.
Hark! A plot point! The Star Lights are ALIENS! They left their home world behind, possibly after a catastrophe, and possibly as the only survivors. Theyare now on the lookout for that person, whose silhouette sure does look a lot more like Galaxia than Usagi. Well, Im surethat wont lead to any future conflict, no no, not at all.
Dee is a nerd of all trades and a master of one. She has bachelors degrees in English and East Asian studies and an MFA in Creative Writing. To pay the bills, she works as a technical writer. To not pay the bills, she devours novels and comics, watches far too much anime, and cheers very loudly for the Kansas Jayhawks. You can hang out with her at The Josei Next Door, a friendly neighborhood anime blog for long-time fans and newbies alike, as well as onTumblr and Twitter.
Please make note of The Mary Sues general comment policy.
Do you follow The Mary Sue on Twitter, Facebook, Tumblr, Pinterest, & Google +?
Follow The Mary Sue
Follow @TheMarySue
Like us on Facebook
filed under
contributors, recap, Sailor Moon, Sailor Moon newbie recaps
Get the Newsletter
What's Popular
The Ghostbusters Trailer Backlash Shows Men Believe in the Power of Representation (But Only When It Applies to Them)
Watch All of President Obamas Mic-Dropping Correspondents Dinner Speech
Last Week Tonight Recaps Everything That Happened During Jon Stewarts Daily Show Run
Things We Saw Today: Radiohead Erases Itself From the Internet
Margot Robbie on Harley Quinns Pants (or Lack Thereof)
Tips
Have a tip or story idea? Email us. Or to keep it anonymous, click here.
Previous Post
2016 The Mary Sue, LLC |
About Us |
Advertise |
Subscription FAQ |
Privacy |
User Agreement |
Disclaimer |
Contact
|
RSS
Dan Abrams, Founder
Mediaite
The Mary Sue
RunwayRiot
The Braiser
LawNewz
SportsGrid
Gossip Cop