Skip to Content
Skip to Main Navigation
Skip to Information Links
Skip to Site Search
Skip to Footer
Skip to Accessibility Information
Home Page
Information Links
Sign in
Register
Bulletins
Advertise
Subscribe
Third SectorMainNet
Main Navigation
Search
Home
Jobs
News
Views
Knowledge
FR Week
Fundraising
Finance
Digital
Governance
Communications
Management
Policy
Big Stories
Email Bulletins
RSS Newsfeeds
Star Supporters
Good Practice
Webcasts
Surveys
Expert Reports
Research
Expert Hub
Careers
Fundraising Week 2016
Awards
Sense quiet on claims it has closed its corporate fundraising department
03 May 2016
by Susannah Birkwood,
Be the First to Comment
The deafblind charity declines to comment on claims that it has made the move with the loss of three jobs
The deafblind charity Sense has declined to comment on claims that it has closed down its corporate fundraising department with the loss of three jobs
despite announcing plans last year to focus on boosting its income from corporates.
A source told Third Sector that the charity, which works with people who are both deaf and blind, officially closed the department at the end of March.
The move is surprising because the charitys former director of fundraising Alana Tubasei said in an interview last year that Sense hoped to grow its income from corporates and major donors from 9m to 12m by 2018.
The charitys latest accounts for the year 2014/15 also state that a new fundraising board was established at the charity that year, involving a team of people working to develop Senses high value and corporate fundraising.
Third Sectors source, who did not wish to be named, said Tubasei left her post at the helm of the charitys fundraising function about a month ago to move into the new role of director of philanthropy.
The charitys ongoing corporate accounts are now being handled by the events and community fundraising teams, the source said.
According to Senses website, these include the recruitment consultancy Primary Care People and the accountancy and legal consultancy Addlestrop Consulting.
A spokesman for Sense declined to confirm or deny the sources claims.
He said in a statement: "Were currently redeveloping the fundraising department. We will have a new director of fundraising starting in May who will be implementing a new vision in line with our new corporate strategy."
He declined to say why the charity had taken the decision to close its corporate fundraising department and whether this was due to underperformance. But he confirmed that the charity had made redundancies, which he said were part of the redevelopment of the wider department.
The webpage on corporate fundraising on Senses website is still active and the charitys advertisement for a replacement for Tubasei, which closed in January, asks for candidates with experience in this area, as well as other types of fundraising. The spokesman said the identity of the new appointee would be revealed in due course.
The charitys latest accounts state: "Fundraising remains a challenge, but the direct marketing campaigns we instigated in 2013/4, in both Sense and Sense Scotland, have helped maintain the growth in fundraising income, which has risen from 9m in 2013/14 to 9.4m in 2014/5."
Share this article
Tweet
Related Articles
Youth work charity closes with the loss of eight jobs
Chief executive Susanne Rauprich among redundancies as youth charity closes its doors
NCVO to make 12 people redundant
More on this Topic
Big Lottery Fund criticised for giving 250k grant to website that attracted 340 users
Charity apologises after charging direct debit donors 100 times what they had pledged
Institute of Fundraising criticised for confusion over EU data protection rules
HMRC clarifies position on donations from social giving websites
Ex-chief executive of aid charity banned from company directorships
Before commenting please read our rules for commenting on articles.
If you see a comment you find offensive, you can flag it as inappropriate. In the top right-hand corner of an individual comment, you will see 'flag as inappropriate'. Clicking this prompts us to review the comment. For further information see our rules for commenting on articles.
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus
Follow us on:
Latest Jobs
Public Affairs & PR Manager
Royal British Legion Industries
Aylesford, Kent
Caseworker
Manchester Action on Street Health
Manchester, Greater Manchester
Senior Community Fundraising Manager
The Childrens Trust
Tadworth, Surrey
Corporate Fundraising Manager
Royal British Legion Industries
Aylesford, Kent with UK wide travel
Communications Manager
Polly Symondson Recruitment Ltd
Bristol (City Centre), City of Bristol
Search more jobs
Send me jobs by email
Third Sector Insight
Sponsored webcasts, surveys and expert reports from Third Sector partners
Charity trustees & risk management - planning for the unforeseen
Todays charity leaders have a lot...
Report: How do charities gain the support of major donors?
In austere times with continued government...
Choosing an online fundraising platform
This report reveals insights from a survey...
More Third Sector Insight
Expert Hub
Insurance advice from Markel
Video: Importance of watertight abuse cover
Recent abuse claims highlight the need for care organisations to have robust abuse cover, as this video from Markel shows
Help & Information
About Third Sector
Contact Us
Advertiser Information
Terms & Conditions
Privacy
Cookie Policy
Accessibility
FAQ
Editorial Complaint?
Subscription & Registration
Subscribe to Third Sector
Register
Free Trial
Subscriber web account activation
Acevo member registration
Third Sector App
News
News & Analysis
Big Stories
Star Supporters
Email Bulletins
RSS Newsfeeds
Channels
Fundraising
Finance
Digital
Governance
Management
Communications
Policy & Politics
Volunteering
Social Enterprise
Local Action
Good Practice
Knowledge
Fundraising Good Practice
Finance Good Practice
Governance Good Practice
Communications Good Practice
Management Good Practice
Expert Hub
Site Sections
Careers
Classified Advertising
Events
Awards
Partner Sites
Third Sector Research
Third Sector Jobs
Third Sector Volunteering
Business Charity Awards
Third Sector Awards
Haymarket Media Group Ltd. | Terms & Conditions