site
Archive
subscribe now
|
find n save
|
newsletter
CLASSIFIEDS
JOBS
CARS
HOMES
FEATURED
NEWS NOW
Residents: Cuts to Norwich budget go too far
...
Lisbon residents send budget to referendum
...
ECSU Spring Weekend arrests drop dramatically, police say
...
Residents: Cuts to Norwich budget go too far
...
Lisbon residents send budget to referendum
...
ECSU Spring Weekend arrests drop dramatically, police say
...
Tourtellotte softball breaks out the bats
Comment
By Marc Allard
mallard@norwichbulletin.com, (860) 425-4212
Follow @mallardnb
The Bulletin
By Marc Allard
mallard@norwichbulletin.com, (860) 425-4212
Follow @mallardnb
Posted May. 2, 2016 at 9:14 PM
Updated at 10:28 PM
By Marc Allard
mallard@norwichbulletin.com, (860) 425-4212
Follow @mallardnb
Posted May 2, 2016 at 9:14 PM
Updated at 10:28 PM
LISTEN LIVESOFTBALLFitch at NFA 4 p.m. Outlook: A thunderstorm on Monday rendered the field unplayable, so the two teams will try again today. It...
Read more
X
LISTEN LIVESOFTBALLFitch at NFA 4 p.m. Outlook: A thunderstorm on Monday rendered the field unplayable, so the two teams will try again today. Its a battle between the top two teams in the Eastern Connecticut Conference Large Division who feature two of the best pitchers on this side of the state: Fitchs Caroline Taber and NFAs Beth Fleming. The target on the back of the undefeated Falcons (10-0) just got a bit larger after they were voted a unanimous No. 1 in the state in the latest New Haven Register poll. The Wildcats come in with a 10-1 mark and are just outside the top 10 in the state.How to listen: The broadcast will be available through spreaker.com/norwichbulletin on computers and mobile devices. The link for the broadcast also will be available at NorwichBulletin.com, on our mobile app and on Marc Allards Twitter page, @mallardNB.
LEBANON
Tourtellotte senior Crystal Daly maintains she is a singles hitter.Im honestly not the strongest hitter, Daly said after Tourtellottes 18-11 high school softball victory over Lyman on a cool and damp Monday.Dont believe it.Her coach doesnt.No, Brooke DiFormato said flatly in response to Dalys contention. Crystal has been one of our better hitters since freshman year. She works in the offseason, plays summer ball, shes really committed to being a good softball player. She honestly has one of the most mechanically sound swings on the team, but she can get a case of the hit it right at thems so it was nice to see her hit it in the gaps (Monday).Daly showed what her bat is capable of against the Bulldogs with four hits
a homer, double and two singles
and she knocked in almost half the Tigers runs, finishing with eight RBIs.It was the offense (19 hits) that set the tone for Tourtellotte in the battle for second place in the Eastern Connecticut Conference Small Division, which the Tigers (9-3, 3-1) now own.Carinne Sosnowski put a little juice in Tourtellottes step early when she led off with a fly ball that fooled Lyman centerfielder Nicole Bibeau into coming in a few steps, only to see it soar over her head for a leadoff home run.It was just the first four-bagger for Sosnowski, who added a solo shot in the seventh inning, legging both of them out on the fenceless field in Lebanon.Carinne is a sparkplug and has always been a good hitter, but this year, she has coupled that with her speed and is taking advantage of everything she can get, DiFormato said.An Abby Poirier (3-for-6) single, a fielders choice and an error followed Sosnowskis first-inning homer for Tourtellotte. Daly followed that with a deep drive to left that she legged out to give Tourtellotte the 4-0 lead.It wasnt going to be enough.Lyman (5-7, 3-2 ECC Small) rallied for two of their own in the bottom of the first and three more in the second to take a 5-4 lead.That was short-lived after Tourtellotte put an eight spot up on the board in the third. Mariah Beausoleil, Poirier and Daly (in her second at-bat of the inning) each delivered a pair of RBIs.But the Tigers aided Lyman in the bottom of the inning with three errors and a walk that led to two runs. The Bulldogs added three more in the fourth on a Leah Vichas run-scoring triple, an RBI single by Bibeau and an RBI fielders choice by Annie Konrad to cut the deficit to two, 12-10.Page 2 of 2 - I was very happy with that, Lyman coach Ron Vigue said of the comeback. Everybody was enthusiastic, everybody was in it and I never felt any give with anybody even as frustrated as we were with all the mental errors and real errors (the Bulldogs committed 11).Tourtellotte put it away with four in the fifth, three on Dalys double.After a game against Putnam today, the Tigers have their two meetings with ECC Small Division leader Wheeler (4-0). They visit the Lions on Thursday and host them on Saturday.This really builds our confidence and lets them know we can do this. If were going (to win the Small), this is the year. I think were ready for it. Weve been itching to play Wheeler all year. Back to back? I dont know. But if it doesnt go our way on Thursday, it will ignite them even more for Saturday, DiFormato said.
By Marc Allard
mallard@norwichbulletin.com, (860) 425-4212
Follow @mallardnb
The Bulletin
By Marc Allard
mallard@norwichbulletin.com, (860) 425-4212
Follow @mallardnb
Posted May. 2, 2016 at 9:14 PM
Updated at 10:28 PM
Comment or view comments
Terms of Service
norwichbulletin.com
Norwich Directory
Featured Businesses
Loading...
Business Name
addressLocation, ST | website.com
Find Norwich Attractions
Bars
Restaurants
Beauty Salons
Entertainment
Doctors
Medical Specialists
Contractors
Education
Lawn Services
Lawyers
Shopping
Travel
Tanning
Used Cars
Wedding Services
Add your business here +
Events Calendar
Connect with The Bulletin
Facebook
Twitter
RSS
Back to top
Site Services
Contact Us
Customer Service
Place an ad
Purchase a photo
Archives
Advertising/Classified
Cars
Homes
Today's Ads
Classifieds
Obituaries
Find Norwich jobs
Community Info
CtSunlight.org
Connecticut tourism
The Last Green Valley
Sex Offender Registry
Gas Buddy
DOT traffic cameras
Comcast Public Access Television
Local Business
Northeast Chamber of Commerce
Greater Norwich Area Chamber of Commerce
Chamber of Commerce of Eastern Connecticut
Chamber of Commerce Inc. Windham Region
Propel Marketing
More Content Now
Find&Save
Mobile Site
Stay Informed
Email newsletter
Sign Up Today
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
Copyright 2006-2016 Gatehouse Media, LLC Some rights reservedPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service|Gatehouse Media Publications
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted. The Bulletin | 10 Railroad Place, Norwich, CT 06360