Sign In
Register
Home
Archives
Blogs
Americans pick the best and worst U.S. hotel chains
Celebrities with exotic pets
Internet trolls attack Old Navy's interracial ad
The gun-toting women of the Mexican drug cartels
Local
Weather
Traffic
Politics
Joel Connelly
Marijuana
Science
Environment
Obituaries
Crime
City says 23 property owners broke fair housing laws
Viageddon continues: Bertha under viaduct, traffic not completely
Bertha inches ahead, viaduct closure begins, traffic slows
Police: Dad busts peeper at Sea-Tac Airport bathroom
US & World
Crime
U.S.
Washington D.C.
Asia
Africa
Middle East
Europe
Latin America/Carribean
Canada
Odd News
Anti-abortion activist goes to trial over letter to doctor
Teacher sick-outs close most Detroit schools for a 2nd day
10 Things to Know for Today
Funeral will honor 6 of 8 victims in Ohio family shootings
Business
Boeing/Aerospace
Microsoft/Tech
Press Releases
Sponsored Content
CVS Health tops Street 1Q forecasts
American International Group posts 1Q loss
INSIDE WASHINGTON: Ag groups seek exemption from scrutiny
US consumer sentiment slips in April
Sports
Seahawks/NFL
Mariners/MLB
Sounders/Soccer
Huskies/Cougars
Jim Moore
More Sports
Seahawks players won't wear No. 24 to honor Marshawn Lynch
Seahawks receive mostly positive marks for NFL draft
Veteran NFL insider grades every team in the NFL draft
QB Trevone Boykin highlights Hawks' undrafted free agents
A&E
Events
Movies
TV
Music
Restaurants
Books
Theater/Arts
Celebrities
Kate Upton debuts engagement ring at Met Gala
Boxer Shane Mosley rescues baby from burning car
Report: Kerry Washington pregnant with second child
Police search Princes local pharmacy
Life
Home & Garden
Health
Food & Dining
Advice
Reader Blogs
Pets
Sponsored Content
Horoscopes
Visitors Guide
Newest hot swim fashions out of Brazil
Carolyn Hax: She's addicted to her phone
The 5 most talked-about moments from this week's 'Game of
2016 has been a bad year for celebrity deaths but not the worst
Travel
Comics
Comics Kingdom
Trivia
Play Four
Puzzles
Comics: Funky Winkerbean, Zits, The Phantom and more
Puzzles: Sudoku, Crossword, Kakuro and more
Trivia
Play Four
Photos
Education
Real Estate
MenuSections
http://www.seattlepi.com/news/politics/article/A-confident-Trump-seeks-knockout-of-Cruz-in-7387228.php
Cruz fights for survival as Trump eyes Indiana knockout
Thomas Beaumont and Steve Peoples, Associated Press
Updated 4:29am, Tuesday, May 3, 2016
Photo: Charles Rex Arbogast, AP
Image 1of/6
CaptionClose
Image 1 of 6
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks during a campaign stop Monday, May 2, 2016, in South Bend, Ind.
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks during a campaign stop Monday, May 2, 2016, in South Bend, Ind.
Photo: Charles Rex Arbogast, AP
Image 2 of 6
Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz, right, exchanges words with Donald Trump supporters during a campaign visit to Marion, Ind., on Monday, May 2, 2016.
(Jeff Morehead/Chronicle-Tribune via AP)
Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz, right, exchanges words with Donald Trump supporters during a campaign visit to Marion, Ind., on Monday, May 2, 2016.
(Jeff Morehead/Chronicle-Tribune via AP)
Photo: Jeff Morehead, AP
Image 3 of 6
Republican presidential candidate, Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas autographs a poster outside the Bravo Cafe during a campaign stop, Monday, May 2, 2016, in Osceola, Ind.
Republican presidential candidate, Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas autographs a poster outside the Bravo Cafe during a campaign stop, Monday, May 2, 2016, in Osceola, Ind.
Photo: Charles Rex Arbogast, AP
Image 4 of 6
Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton speaks to steelworkers in Ashland, Ky., Monday, May 2, 2016.
Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton speaks to steelworkers in Ashland, Ky., Monday, May 2, 2016.
Photo: Paul Sancya, AP
Image 5 of 6
Democratic presidential candidate, Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt. speaks during a campaign rally, Monday, May 2, 2016, in Fort Wayne, Ind.
Democratic presidential candidate, Sen. Bernie Sanders, I-Vt. speaks during a campaign rally, Monday, May 2, 2016, in Fort Wayne, Ind.
Photo: Darron Cummings, AP
Image 6 of 6
A vendor sells Donald Trump t-shirts before a rally for Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump in Carmel, Ind., Monday, May 2, 2016.
A vendor sells Donald Trump t-shirts before a rally for Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump in Carmel, Ind., Monday, May 2, 2016.
Photo: Michael Conroy, AP
Cruz fights for survival as Trump eyes Indiana knockout
1/6
Back to Gallery
OSCEOLA, Ind. (AP)
Ted Cruz's conservative crusade for the presidency fought for new life Monday ahead of an Indiana vote that could effectively end the GOP's primary season. The fiery Texas senator hinted at an exit strategy, even as he vowed to compete to the end against surging Republican front-runner Donald Trump."I am in for the distance
as long as we have a viable path to victory," Cruz told reporters after campaigning at a popular breakfast stop.
With his supporters fearing Cruz could lose a seventh consecutive state Tuesday, the candidate's formulation hinted at a time when he may give up.Like Ohio Gov. John Kasich, Cruz is already mathematically eliminated from reaching a delegate majority before the Republican Party's national convention in July. He retreated to Indiana more than a week ago, hoping a win could at least help him deny Trump an outright primary victory and lead to a contested convention.But a recent poll of likely Indiana voters showed Trump holding a commanding lead.At a stop in Monday in Marion, Indiana, Trump supporters confronted Cruz."Lyin' Ted!" yelled one, using Trump's pet name for his rival."What do you like about him?" Cruz asked the man. "Name one thing.""Everything," the protester replied.After six straight victories across the Northeast late last month, math and momentum are on Trump's side. The anti-Trump movement's only hope is to deny the billionaire businessman a 1,237-delegate majority by defeating him in Indiana and the handful of contests remaining over the next month. Then, Cruz or another candidate would have to beat him when delegates gather in Cleveland in July."Millions of Americans are praying for this state," Cruz said. "The entire country is depending on the state of Indiana to pull us back from this cliff."Trump sensed an Indiana knockout."Honestly, if we win Indiana, it's over. It's over. They're finished. They're gone," the former reality television star told voters at a rally in Carmel, Ind.Tuesday features a primary on the Democratic side, too. New signs emerged that front-runner Hillary Clinton's chief rival Bernie Sanders is fading as well.Clinton announced $26 million in new fundraising in April, narrowly beating Sanders. His total of $25.8 million last month marked a steep decline from $46 million he collected in March.Sanders also refused to report how much money he had in the bank, raising questions about whether he can sustain his online fundraising dominance as his path to the nomination becomes less likely.Shrugging off the numbers, Sanders, like Cruz, vowed to "fight hard as hard as we can for every vote."He called the Democratic primary process "rigged," noting that he has won 45 percent of the pledged delegates awarded after primaries or caucuses, but only about 7 percent of superdelegates, the Democratic officials and party leaders who can support the candidate of their choice.Still, Sanders showed no signs of letting up on Clinton, pointing to differences with the former secretary of state over fundraising, Goldman Sachs speeches, the Iraq war, fracking and the minimum wage.Polls show a close vote is likely.Cruz barnstormed Indiana with five stops on Monday alone in a desperate sprint for support alongside his latest high-profile supporter, Indiana Gov. Mike Pence."We need every single vote," he declared at Bravo Cafe in Osceola, where he predicted a tight finish the next day.Trump led by 15 points in an NBC News/Wall Street Journal/Marist poll conducted last week. That's even after Cruz took extraordinary steps to boost his chances in the state.He announced his pick for vice president last week, unveiling former businesswoman Carly Fiorina as his running mate at an Indiana stop that appeared rushed. Days earlier, he declared alliance of sorts with Kasich in which the Ohio governor agreed to pull his advertising from Indiana airwaves.The strategy seemed to unravel even as it was announced. And it may have backfired. The NBC poll found nearly 6 in 10 Indiana primary voters disapproved of the Cruz-Kasich arrangement.Trump's advantage comes even as he's getting badly outspent on advertising in the state.He has spent about $1 million on ads over Indiana airwaves, while Cruz's campaign, pro-Cruz super PACs and anti-Trump groups have combined for about $6.4 million, according to data from Kantar Media's Campaign Media Analysis Group.On the Democratic side, Clinton's campaign hasn't dropped a dollar on television or radio advertising in Indiana. Sanders has spent $1.8 million.Trump, for his part, held a pair of rallies in the state Monday. But with an overwhelming delegate lead, he signaled it was only a matter of time before he clinches the Republican nomination even if he stumbles Tuesday."We'll win it next week or the week after or the week after, and it's fine, because they have no path and I have an easy path," Trump said.___Peoples reported from Washington. Associated Press writers Ken Thomas, Chad Day and Julie Bykowicz in Washington, Jill Colvin in South Bend, Indiana, and Jonathan Lemire in Carmel, Indiana, contributed to this report.
Most Popular
1
9 arrested, 5 police injured: Another May Day in Seattle
2
Missing boy, 6, found dead near Big Four Ice Caves
3
Carolyn Hax: I want kids but don't want to be 'Mommy'
4
Sinkhole opens near Sound Transit tunnel in Ravenna
5
Hansen's Sodo arena project suffers huge loss in City Council...
6
QB Trevone Boykin highlights Seahawks' undrafted free agents,...
7
Carolyn Hax: She's addicted to her phone
View Comments
2016 Hearst Communications, Inc.
Logo
Return to Top
About
Our Company
Careers
Advertising
Ad Choices
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights
Contact
Newsroom Contacts
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Instagram
Hearst Newspapers
Copyright
Hearst Seattle Media, LLC