Tuesday
May
03
2016
5:09 am
Home
Local News
State/National/World
Sports
Opinion / Letters
Business
Arts / Entertainment
Lifestyle
Obituaries
Calendar
Submit Event
Comics / Games
Classifieds
DJ Designers
Archives
Advertise With Us
About Us
GET THE DAY'S
TOP HEADLINES
DELIVERED DAILY
TO YOUR INBOX
FOR FREE
Sign up here
Read the Print Edition Here:
Read Archive PDFs:
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001
2000
Protesters, police praise safe Donald Trump rally: Opposing sides agree Burlingame protest was success, but reasons differ
May 03, 2016, 05:00 AM By Austin Walsh Daily Journal
Renee Abu-Zaghibra/Daily JournalProtesters against Donald Trump faced off against police officers outside the California Republican Party convention in Burlingame Friday, April 29.
Protesters and police do not often see eye to eye on many issues but, in the wake of the clash between the two sides last week during Donald Trumps visit to Burlingame, both parties found a rare opportunity to agree.
At least no one was significantly injured during the melee, said Burlingame police Lt. Jay Kiely, of the event featuring several hundred protesters opposing Trump in front of the California Republican Convention Friday, April 29, at the Hyatt Regency hotel.
Deidre Smith, of the social change group BlackOut Collective, which helped coordinate the protest, echoed those sentiments.
Im really glad no one was seriously hurt, she said. Especially after seeing what happened in Southern California.
Some in the raucous crowd chanted, waved signs, hurled eggs, blocked traffic, attempted to breach police crowd control barriers and others successfully gained access to the hotel where they unfurled a large banner declaring their disdain for the front-runner to become the Republican presidential nominee.
Though emotions ran high and disobedience prevailed, the violence which marred Trumps appearance in Costa Mesa in Orange County before his visit to San Mateo County was largely avoided.
Five protesters were arrested along the Burlingame Bayfront, said Kiely, most on charges of trespassing or reluctance to obey orders from police to disperse in the late afternoon.
One injury was reported, according to Kiely, after a San Mateo County sheriffs deputy was kicked in the face while attempting to arrest an unruly protester.
The man who allegedly assaulted the officer is being charged with three misdemeanors including resisting arrest and failure to disperse, according to the San Mateo County District Attorneys Office.
Emmanuel Geronimo, 27, was denied release Monday and will be back in court May 9, to enter a plea. His bail was set at $10,000.
The scene was nearly unprecedented for Burlingame, said Kiely, who referred to a visit by former president George W. Bush more than a decade ago as the only instance which could compare in terms of discord to Trumps appearance.
He would have preferred there be no need for arrests or medical assistance, but considering the size, scope and tone of the crowd assembled, Kiely said he believed the event was a success for local law enforcement.
Members from each police department across San Mateo County contributed to the crowd control effort, said Kiely, but he was uncertain the amount of officers present.
He credited the collaboration between partnering agencies in the ability to manage the crowd successfully.
We could not have done it without the cooperation of all the police agencies and the San Mateo County Sheriffs [Office], he said.
Considering the tension permeating much of the day, which featured officers facing directly off with protesters, Kiely complimented the professionalism exhibited by all law enforcement present.
Officers exhibited amazing restraint while being assaulted, said Kiely. Protesters were saying hateful things, throwing eggs and who knows what else, but our officers and deputies did an amazing job out there.
Smith though was not so quick to praise the discipline of officers.
We were well within our right at that rally, she said. So the idea that police would act with anything but respect for us is what is unreasonable to me. I do not intend to congratulate police on not being violent. The police were still forceful. And even the idea that they exhibited restraint is what is so dangerous about the relationship between the democracy, the people and police.
Despite the differing perspective, Smith said she considered the event a success for protesters as well.
The assembled crowd forced Trump to alter his route into the hotel, which ultimately resulted in him climbing from his motorcade on Highway 101 around a barrier and into a back entrance at the hotel before addressing his crowd roughly 45 minutes later than expected.
Once in front of his audience, Trump made light of his unconventional entrance by quipping it felt like he was crossing the border.
Smith said the joke reinforced the oppositions opinion of Trump as a nemesis, and a deserved target of their ire.
After hearing Trumps speech, and his remarks about crossing the border, we feel like that showcases his ignorance and need for communities of color to work in solidarity and dismantle his platform of hate, she said.
Ultimately, Smith said she believed the rally served as an illustration of the lengths Trumps opposition will go to fight against his campaign.
We are angry, we are coordinated and we are willing to put our bodies on the line to end violent action and rhetoric in our country, she said.
For his part, Kiely appreciated the ability of officers to balance their obligation to maintain the freedom of speech rights for protesters against the need to protect the safety of those attending the convention, as well as other law enforcement officers.
It was a volatile situation, he said. That said, our officers worked well together in that moment. Everyone worked excellent together. And because of that hard work and cooperation, we were ultimately able to achieve a peaceful outcome.
austin@smdailyjournal.com
(650) 344-5200 ext. 105
Tags:
police, kiely, officers, crowd, protesters, county, donald trump, san mateo county gop ted cruz, john kasich, california republican party
Other stories from today:
County looks for criminal defense input: Report blasts Private Defender Program for possible conflictsSan Mateo County police reportsGovernment watch
Print this Page
|
Daily Journal Quick Poll
Is the cost of living in the Bay Area worth it?
Definitely yes
For the most part
Sometimes
Getting to be no
Definitely not
Our User Agreement
Our Privacy Policy
Home
Local News
State / National / World
Sports
Opinion / Letters
Business
Arts / Entertainment
Lifestyle
Obituaries
Calendar
Submit Event
Newsletter Signup
Comics / Games
Classifieds
DJ Designers
Archives
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
About Us
SiteMap
2016 San Mateo Daily Journal
San Mateo County garage sales