Place An Ad Now Submit A Story
Tuesday, May 3
My ACCOUNT E-EDITION My REWARDS SUBSCRIBE
Home
News
Sports
Life
Blogs
Obits
Photos
Videos
Ads
Autos
Jobs
Real Estate
GoGuide
Outdoor
Special Sections
Local
State
National
World
Business
Health
Opinion
Politics
Latest Headlines:
U.S. troops move closer to the direct fight against Islamic State in Iraq Target boycott petition surpasses a million signatures and percent of people who would shop there drops Unemployed W. Va. coal worker confronts Hillary Clinton over her plan to put coal 'out of business' Concealed carry gun-holder intervenes in domestic dispute at Arlington Walgreens and is shot dead Agencies providing relief for residents affected by last week's tornadoes Focal Point: Roads Less Traveled Jillian Mercado made it as a professional model with a disability; now she wants... Police identify girl killed in ejection from carnival ride
Home / News / Business / Target boycott petition surpasses a million signatures and percent of people who would shop there drops
Target boycott petition surpasses a million signatures and percent of people who would shop there drops Published on Tuesday, 3 May 2016 06:52 - Written by Travis M. Andrews, The Washington Post
Related Links
Battle of the bathrooms fight shaping up in Texas Alabama city: Jail time if use public bathroom not matching birth certificate 'A danger to wives and daughters': Petition to boycott Target over new bathroom policy gains support Tyler Target shoppers react to company's new transgender policy Target: Customers welcome in fitting rooms, bathrooms corresponding with 'gender identity' Target to close 13 stores
As an online petition to boycott Target continues to attract signatures, an American Family Association leader said the organization has sent men into women's bathrooms at Target.
The petition, which launched on April 20 in response to Target's statement that transgender individuals can use the bathroom and fitting room that corresponds with their gender identities, has surpassed a million signatures. As of Tuesday morning, it had more than 1,155,000 signatures.
"We believe that everyone - every team member, every guest, and every community - deserves to be protected from discrimination, and treated equally," Target's statement read. "Consistent with this belief, Target supports the federal Equality Act, which provides protections to LGBT individuals, and opposes action that enables discrimination."
Now, in an interview on Breitbart News Daily, a conservative website, Sandy Rios, Director of Government Affairs for the American Family Association, said the organization has sent men to Target to attempt entry into women's bathrooms. She did not mention the gender identity of these men.
Rios says, "I think there's no question that when you say that there are no barriers in the bathroom and that if men or women feel like they are men or women, the [opposite] of however they are equipped, and you have no restrictions, the net effect will be that people will not be stopped. We've already had people testing this, going into Targets and men trying to go into bathrooms. There is absolutely no barrier."
While there is no evidence of American Family Association-affiliated men entering women's restrooms in Target, YouTube has filled with videos of men doing just that. Many of the videos include the men protesting the policy.
The boycott has affected Target, USA Today reported. According to data compiled by YouGov BrandIndex, a research company focused on brand perception, Target suffered a loss of 4 percent of people who say they would consider shopping at the store. Before the statement regarding its bathrooms, 42 percent of people said they would consider the retail giant. After, that number had dropped to 38 percent, a shift YouGov CEO Ted Marzilli called "significant."
One Target employee, who wished to remain anonymous, told WFTS in Tampa Bay, Fla. he's worried about the boycott's potential effects on the company's staff.
"I'm worried that it will cost jobs. I'm wondering if they care about families or they care about families of team members that lose their jobs," he said.
Melissa Arnoff, on the other hand, doesn't see cause for worry. The senior vice president at crisis communications firm Levick told USA Today that she didn't think the boycott will hurt Target in the long run. In fact, it could actually help the brand as it upholds its self-curated identity.
"I don't think they stand to lose much at all," Arnoff said. "This isn't unusual for them. It's actually very true to who they say they are as a brand. I think the people who shop there loyally know that."
---
(c) 2016, The Washington Post
Travis M. Andrews
NATIONAL, BUSINESS
May 03, 2016 - 6:31 AM
Recommended for You
Subscribe to Our Newsletters Keep up to date with the latest news
Manage Your Emails Here
About Us Questions Privacy Policy Terms Of Service Advertise With Us Contact Us Copyright Who We Are PLACE AN AD NOW
2016 TylerPaper.com/Tyler Morning Telegraph
410 W. Erwin St., Tyler, Texas 75702 All Rights Reserved