

Buhari must probe Jonathan if hes serious with corruption war.
Balarabe Musa, is a Second Republic governor of defunct Kaduna State and Chairman Conference of Nigeria Political Parties, CNPP, an umbrella organisation of all registered parties in Nigeria. In this interview with AZA MSUE in Kaduna, Musa who is an anti-corruption crusader predicted that, Nigeria may explode due to high level of poverty and hardship except the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government urgently finds solution to the ailing economy. He said it seems the government cannot fix the worsen situation. Musa also said it will be impossible to fight corruption in Nigeria at the moment as virtually 90% are corrupt and if the war must be taken seriously then the president must probe Goodluck Jonathan before he sends Sambo Dasuki to the gullotine. The elder statesman also speaks on other interesting issues. Excerpts:
What is your take on the position of Nigeria economy? Well, the position of the economy is that, it is not performing, and the situation may even get worst particularly with the level of unemployment, with the collapse of industries, with the low level of the naira. Who is more responsible for the state of the economy, is it the government or the private sector? All these added up with other negative situations. I suggest that the state of the economy in its growth is not promising. This situation, I am afraid Nigerias poverty and hardship level may explode except President Muhammadu Buhari will urgently fix the decaying economy.
Is there any possibility that President Muhammadu Buhari will be able to address the economic issue facing the nation? It is clear that he will not be able and we should stop relying on an individual in the solution of these economic problems, we should rely on the leadership of this valid system for solution of our all round issues including the state of the economy.
The president has spent close to a year in office, what is your general assessment as regard to other sector apart from the economy? Everything is not an issue, is not even in accordance with all the promises President Buhari made before 2015 elections.
This war on corruption at several instances, the president was quoted as saying he will use the money recovered from people who have looted the treasury of the country to build the economy. Do you see this war against corruption as genuine and the one that can be won by the president? The war on corruption on the face of it is genuine, it was not started by him but only continue with it. But its success is doubtful because of the way it is being implemented. It is being implemented by those who themselves are not clean, leaders who are not clean cannot clean others. We have a situation in this country, whereby virtually everyone is a problem, except those who have no access to the ability of bringing problem and those by nature of God has constructed themselves in such a way that they will avoid corruption, other than these, every Nigerian is corrupt in one way or another, knowingly or unknowingly, indirectly or directly. In fact, the leadership of this system should produce a situation whereby survival without corruption is very difficult indeed, virtually impossible 99% or even more of Nigerians are corrupt in one way or another, directly or indirectly, knowingly or unknowingly to the system which is based on self interest first public interest second, and the political leadership by the system that are directly responsible for the negative state of the nation and this can be better only if the system could changed, the one based on public interest first, enlighten interest second, the situation prior to 1966 was tolerable and was better because as screw as the system was, it was aimed at the protection of the public interest first, and enlighten self interest second and the system and the leadership protect that, and that is why throughout the period of 1966, we did not have these heavy level of corruption, stealing and criminal waste of resources. Whoever was found before that time that have been involved in corruption was easily identified, easily confronted, easily prosecuted, and the judicial system judged accordingly and imposed punishment related to the offence and acted as restrain on others. But since 1966 when the military took over power, the present situation which I described, people steal public funds and get away with it without any punishment and therefore without regards to others started.
Some public commentators have suggested that death penalty should be adopted as punishment for corruption. Are you in support of that? Well, this has to be considered seriously, there may be no alternative but let us think of it first, how can we imposed adequate punishment on those who have failed, how can we, before even if we think of death sentence if we are not careful today, with the situation in the country today, we will give power to thieves to kill other thieves.
How will you view the alleged corruption war against ex-President Jonathans men? That is perversion of even the war, it is a prejudice, it is targeting someone for punishment in a way of avoiding punishing others. Like in the case of Dasukigate, the first person to tackle is the ex-president, because who approved the payment to Dasuki? And who approved the assignment to Dasuki? It was the president. It is when the president is probed in the cause of the problem, that you will know what offence Dasuki has committed but instead of facing Jonathan first, he has taken responsibility, privilege in other to avoid both and making Dasuki the target and this will eventually be cleared later because the moment the trial of Dasuki stopped, people will see the dishonesty and hypocrisy of targeting Dasuki before targeting Jonathan.
From the body language of the nation as it is now, do you see any political party coming out to challenge the APC in the 2019 elections? Well, if you limit the choice to APC then you are missing the point, it is even worse if you limit the choice to the PDP; you are also missing the point. The thing is, look at the Nigerian parade; do the conditions exist for a real alternative to PDP and APC? That is the issue, and I dont think the conditions for a real alternative exist because of the deciding role of money power in politics and elections in Nigeria and these money that come about not through legitimate parchment, mental and physical means but through corruption, under this situation, things are very difficult without a revolution. Revolution may come which set aside all the reality of power today and establish a new reality of power, in that case, money will no longer be the deciding sector in politics and elections.
President Muhammadu Buhari confirmed the Nigeria involvement in the Campaign Against Terrorism, it was signed in Saudi Arabia where Nigeria joined other Islamic states to battle terrorism, what is your take on this issue? In this case I want to warn Nigerians to be very careful by the little manipulation that is going on. There is so much opposition among the elites against Nigerians joining Muslim countries in the fight against terrorism. There may be justification for that but are these same elites that are opposed to Nigerians joining this Muslim group, are they also equally opposed to America playing the role it is playing in Nigeria in regards to this insurgencies and other development? How can you in all honesty be opposed to action of the Nigeria government without being opposed to the role of America is playing about insurgencies fight in Nigeria, other Western imperialist countries, anybody who is not opposed to America playing this role is being hypocritic. After all who is responsible for the destruction of Iraq, Afghanistan, Syria etc, is it not America connections and imperialism, is it any Islamic connection? It is America connection that is responsible and if we are not careful in one or two years time, unless care is taken or in three years time, America will transform Nigeria into another Iraq and destroy Nigeria completely and leave us just regretting with nothing because when the Iraqis were indifference, and allowed themselves to be divided by American imperialism what happened? They destroyed Iraq in spite of the fact that Iraq under Sadam was actually being guided by America imperialism at higher level. So if we are not careful, we dont look at issue as issues, we will end up, Nigeria becoming another Iraq and we will regret it just as the Iraqis are regretting.
Are you by anyway suggesting that America might have through its agencies like the CIA, FBI, maybe trade Nigeria and cause some of the issues we have? No, politically, in military in particular, America is already surrounding Nigeria whether it is controlling Nigeria or not is another matter we have to see it but is surrounding Nigeria with the aim of transforming Nigeria situation into the Iraqis situation thereby destroying Nigeria like they destroyed Iraq in the interest of wide imperialism in particularly the American imperialism.
Back to your party the PRP, you won the case against the INEC, will you want to share the experience with Nigerians what transpired and your take on the victory? Well, first of all we are happy about the victory because it shows there is a hope that the Nigerian judiciary can be independent. But secondly, we want to alert Nigerians on the fact the system is getting better because in spite of the High court decision, reinstating Peoples Redemption Party, PRP, giving direct order to INEC they are refusing to comply with the order meaning the INEC is committing contempt of court. One of the orders of the court is that INEC should treat PRP like they treat all other political parties that have been registered but INEC is not doing so, INEC is refusing to comply to this order and refusing to give instructions to the states representatives to comply with the court order as regard our party leaders in the states are having difficulties with INEC . For example so much that two or three days ago, PRP Ondo State branch has to take the state INEC to court over the refusal to recognize them. We are having the same problem in a numbers of states. For instance, recently there was a local government election in Sokoto state, PRP could not participate in that election despite the judgment of the court. Now as we are talking, we are taking Ondo state INEC to court over this contempt of court, there are numbers of states like four to five, whose election victory will be taken to court and we are even taking the national INEC to court for not complying with the court order. Is there any reason why INEC should not comply with this court order? Is INEC partisan in this issue? INEC is not supposed to be partisan, this is our problem with INEC but we have already told Nigerians after 1983 election, we discovered that there will never be free, fair and transparent election establishing a legitimate government in Nigeria because of this election rigging. We realized that there will not be free and fair election leading to a legitimate government in Nigeria and therefore we converted PRP into a political party seeking for election as well as the movement that will bring fundamental changes in Nigeria even without election. So PRP since 1983 has become both movement and electoral party.
In other words there is no plan merging PRP with any party? No, not with any political party existing in Nigeria now out of 53 or so, none of them is compatible with PRP as long as ideology is involved. The ideology of the PRP is to bring about social reconstruction of Nigeria, starting with the leading role of the state in the economy to ensure peace, equality, justice the great of the human party and progressing and development of the whole country. Is there any one of the 53 political parties that have this ideology, why should we sell ourselves to any other party? No, we are not going to merge with any political party. Any one is free to join the PRP. We are also prepared to go into a democratic election alliance with them to achieve some level of national interest, we know we can achieve any level of national interest only under the ideology of the PRP but it may not always be so, until that time we were prepared to make principle compromise and go into a democratic election alliance with any political party and we have always done so since the beginning of our history in 1950 when the NEPU were established. NEPU never contested election as NEPU alone; we always contested election in alliance with another party. The first alliance party was NEPUNCNC alliance and since that time, we have always be in alliance with any other political party which we believe can help in minimizing the problems of the country, we have always done so and our history both under the NEPU and the PRP have proved a lot and we are prepared to continue.
How prepared is the party for the 2019 elections? Well, because of the problem facing us with the registration by INEC, we now have to reorganize the party particular now that the registration has been declared none and void by the court and PRP has been reinstated, we are reviewing many things and we have established three committees. One for the registration of new members online and offline. Secondly, we have established a committee for conducting conventions throughout the country at every level to produce new leadership of the party. We have also established constitutional committee to review constitution of the PRP. One thing we discovered was that when the constitution was produced in 2002, we did not expect this level of monetization of politics and therefore we wanted to be more democratic for example, the delegates to convention of the PRP according to the constitution of the PRP numbering up to six-thousand and there is no way we can afford conducting a convention made of about six-thousand delegates. We have to reduce these to what we can manage. In the new constitution, if the review committee agreed, we will have maybe seven hundred and seventy-four national delegates to national convention i.e. one delegate per local government. We may find that even more difficult and therefore we might reduce it to what we can manage. We may end up with say five hundred delegates to a national convention instead of six thousand delegates for example. Also we will bring about clearly the leading role of the states in the economy as opposed to the leading role of the private sector in the economy; we may come up openly with that. So these are the things that you may see in the new constitution of the PRP, but at the moment now, we are continuing with what is on the ground i.e. the constitution. We have reserved February, March, April and May for registration of new members online and offline, and we have reserved June, July, August and September for convention throughout the country ending up with the national convention in September this year. So by September this year, you will see completely new leadership in the PRP, what we stand for will still stand, i.e. socially reconstruction of Nigeria starting from the leading role of the state within the economy that will definitely remain because that is the basis for existence.

