Subscribe
Sign In
Register
Home
Subscribe
Buy E-N Merchandise
Contact Us
About Us
Advertise With Us
Subscriber Services
Place a Classified Ad
Privacy Policy
Site Terms of Use
Newsletters & Text Alerts
Find a Business in S.A.
News Archives
Warren Buffett to join Texas Business Hall of Fame at San Antonio
Flawed Vista Ridge project doesnt make sense
VIA is an asset to Castle Hills
The 80s belonged to Prince
Local
News by Neighborhood
Texas
Obituaries
Traffic
Weather
Lake and River Levels
S.A. History
Guide to San Antonio
San Antonio Charity
Breaking News Video
Classifieds
Apparent murder-suicide leaves three dead in far West Side home
San Antonio chef to cook at the White House for Cinco de Mayo
Gasoline assault nets 90-year sentence
SAPD: 2 arrested after failed robbery of construction crew fails,
US & World
Breaking News Anywhere
Border & Mexico
US
World
Health Care
Politics
Military
Track Flights
Strange News
Authorities: Evidence of pot, cockfighting at killing scenes
Cleveland settles lawsuit over Tamir Rice shooting for $6M
The Latest: Police say Tamir Rice's kin should educate kids
Blowing dust closes I-10 stretch between Arizona, New Mexico
Business
Local
Eagle Ford & Energy
National & International
Automotive News
Top Workplaces in S.A.
Technology
Business Features
Finance Features
Business Careers
Tech Features
Press Releases
Warren Buffett to join Texas Business Hall of Fame at San Antonio
H-E-B buys more land near downtown headquarters
Blue Cross confirms its reached agreement with HCA
Methodist: Blue Cross Blue Shield reaches deal with HCA in Texas
Sports
San Antonio Spurs
NBA
NFL
MLB
Soccer
Colleges
College Football
College Basketball
High Schools
High School Football
High School Basketball
Spurs vs. Thunder: Early thoughts
Big inning hurts Morrow in Missions loss
Warren senior in first at UIL 6A golf
Golf: Mondays high school results
Food
Restaurants
Food Voted Best in S.A.
Recipes & Cooking
Bars & Drinks
Snacks and Entertaining
Guide to Food in S.A.
Sponsored: Sip, Savor, Celebrate
San Antonio chef to cook at the White House for Cinco de Mayo
Yard House sets opening date for downtown San Antonio location
Bohanan's bartender wins Patrn's Margarita of the Year contest
Review: Bella on the River a downtown gem for locals
Entertainment
What S.A. is Watching
Things To Do
Fiesta 2016
Rodeo 2016
Celebrity Buzz
Comics
Puzzles
Horoscope
Movies & TV
Music & Stage
Arts & Culture
Guide to San Antonio
Readers' Choice
Photos at S.A. Parties
Destinations
Duran Duran announces San Antonio concert
Lil' Kim's lighter complexion, blond hair sparks controversy on
Dick Cheney By Jenny Browne
Life after Fiesta: 16 things to know about in San Antonio this
Lifestyle
Wedding Announcements
Bridal Ideas
Travel & Outdoors
Destinations
Health & Family
Senior Living
Home & Garden
Home Decorating
Trends & Style
Beauty and Fitness Tips
Better Living Tips
Gift Ideas
Pets
Green Living
H-E-B Showdown winners slim down by eating healthy
Get to know your souvenirs at this Florida shell museum
Newarks Little Portugal
Bamboo raft washes up on Padre Island National Seashore after
Opinion
Editorials
Commentary
Letters to the Editor
Columnists
Third & Ave. E
Editorial Cartoons
Josh Brodesky
Robert Seltzer
O. Ricardo Pimentel
Bruce Davidson
Maria Anglin
Gloria Padilla
VIA is an asset to Castle Hills
The 80s belonged to Prince
Value in diversity in appointments
Your Turn: April 26
Cars
Car Tips and Help
News & Reviews
Vehicle Search
Car Features
Latest Car Reviews
Toyota 2016 Tacoma TRD Off Road model is great for the beach or
Azera sedan gives the Hyundai brand a premium model based on the
Nissan rolls out second version of the Titan: a shorter half-ton
Jobs
Salary Wizard
Top Workplaces
Career Features
Agency to Hawaii residents: Don't hate on tourists
One UK steel town, one crisis that affects the nation
US applications for jobless aid fall to four-decade low
Homes
Home Search
Apartment Search
Land
Rentals
Open Houses
New Homes Search
Hill Country Living
New Construction
Real Estate Tips
Home Yard Tips
Home DIY
Kitchen, Bed and Bath
Home Decorating
H-E-B buys more land near downtown headquarters
Sponsored: Open houses in San Antonio this weekend
Castle Hills Church putting 20-acre campus up for sale
Central Texas lakefront mansion hits market for first time in
Find&Save
MenuSections
http://radaronline.com/exclusives/2016/04/leeanne-locken-fights-cary-deuber-over-bad-reputation-rhod/
LeeAnne Locken Slams Cary Deuber For Carny Diss: You Dont Effing Know Me, B***h!
Teresa Roca, provided by
Published 6:01pm, Monday, April 25, 2016
Image 1of/1
CaptionClose
Image 1 of 1
LeeAnne Locken Slams Cary Deuber For Carny Diss: You Dont Effing Know Me, B***h!
1/1
Back to Gallery
The Mouth of the South has struck again! After feuding with Brandi Redmond over her inappropriate behavior at charity events, LeeAnne Locken warned Cary Deuber and Stephanie Hollman to steer clear of their rule-breaking friend!
On this weeks The Real Housewives of Dallas, Locken continued to blast Redmond for wearing a hat covered in fake dog poop to a charity event.
I feel sorry for her daughters, Locken told her friend Tiffany Hendra of Redmonds children. I dont know how those girls are going to grow up. It wont be with class.
After disagreeing with Lockens grudge over the situation, Hendra decided to reach out to Deuber and Hollman to have a friendship with her other co-stars.
PHOTOS: 28 Of The Biggest Scandals To Hit The Bravo Franchise
But the idea didnt sit well with Locken, especially since Deuber and Hollman are good friends with her enemy Redmond.
Brandis actions are reflecting on them, Locken said in her confessional. If Tiffany truly wants to become friendly with these women then I need to step in and help make these girls understand the rules.
Locken then decided to invite Deuber and Hollman out to lunch to discuss their reputations, but insisted to Hendra there would be no drama at the meeting.
Hendra quipped, LeeAnne saying she doesnt like drama is like Charlie Sheen saying he doesnt like hookers!
PHOTOS: 10 Reality Stars Who Made All The Wrong Headlines After Appearing On TV
And Hendra was right, as the get-together turned into catfight.
Locken brought the fake poop and negative articles from the event.
S**t is not appropriate at charity events, Locken said, as Deuber jabbed in her confessional, She brought props and handouts to lunch. Are we seriously having a meeting about this right now?
When Deuber explained how she doesnt care about what other people think of her, Locken fired back, Thats being appropriate though Cary!
Deuber then explained how Locken is too concerned with being accepted by the charity community.
Locken responded, If you bow at me, I will bow back. If Im being a b***h then Im going to sharpen my tongue and put you in a little puddle. Bow at me. See how it goes. I dont give a f**k.
PHOTOS: Real Housewives Of Dallas Newbie Tiffany Hendra Stripped Nude For Soft-Core Scenes
But Deuber didnt back down, as she explained how Locken isnt high society because she grew up in the carnival circuit.
Why are you trying to act like this Dallas socialite? You have to be born into that, Deuber said, as Locken responded, You dont actually.
When Deuber said how she didnt want to fight, Locken fired back before storming off, Im not fighting with you. If you think this is a fight, you dont effing know me b***h!
Your browser does not support iframes.
Also on the episode, Redmond opened up about her marital issues with her husband Bryan.
After complaining about how he is always traveling for work, Redmond decided to go to a strip club with Hollman and Deuber to get white girl wasted.
Instead of enjoying a lap dance of her own, Redmond jumped onstage and gave the stripper one instead!
But when her husband found out about the outing, he fought with his wife over her behavior.
I made the mistake of telling Bryan everything that happened at the strip club, she said in her confessional. My husband Bryan and I used to party all the time and now he gets pissed when I do. We kind of live separate lives now.
When Bryan returned home from a business trip, Redmond explained how they are barely speaking.
Bryan feels like he has an image to protect with his business, she said in her confessional. He doesnt want his wife at a strip club.
Redmond then explained how she doesnt understand what happened to the loved-up high school sweethearts they once were.
I feel like I hardly know him, Redmond cried. It hurts to feel like youre always giving someone all of you and you dont feel it in return.
Your browser does not support iframes.
The Real Housewives of Dallas airs Mondays at 10/9c on Bravo.
Latest Entertainment Videos
Latest News
Andra Day to appear on 40 million Coke cups at McDonald's
HGTV's 'Fixer Upper' is must see TV for its growing fan base
Idaho official: Kobe Bryant's remarks help save potato truck
Cosby's criminal case can resume after court rejects appeal
The Latest: Merkel says leaders discuss support for Libya
Met curator Andrew Bolton, quiet defender of fashion as art
Britain's Prince Harry honors Australian, New Zealand fallen
Prince was a one-man band and a friend to many others
Sales of Prince songs, albums spike after superstar's death
Clooney joins Armenians to mark anniversary of massacre
mySpy Slideshows
Photos: Spurs fans gush with joy at win over the Grizzlies
Photos: San Antonio Spurs host watch party at Little...
Photos: Cutting Edge Fiesta Fashion Show at University of the...
Photos: Spurs fans stick by team through season's first home loss
Most Popular
1
Brief scattering of hail hits S.A. Monday, more storms coming
2
Lawyer: Johnny Manziel will be indicted by grand jury
3
Marc Gasol believes his All-Star brother, Pau, will sign with...
4
Ariel Winters Breast Burst Out Of Her Top At Coachella
5
Here are 21 things you probably didn't know about Tim Duncan...
6
Lil' Kim's lighter complexion, blond hair sparks controversy...
7
Costco memberships are about to get more expensive
View Comments
2016 Hearst Communications, Inc.
Logo
Return to Top
About
Corporate Home
Careers
Advertising
Ad Choices
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights
Contact
FAQ
Newsroom Contacts
Purchase Photos
Place a Classified Ad
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Instagram
Subscribe
San Antonio Express-News
ExpressNews.com
iPad app
eEdition
Search Our News Archive
Manage Your Subscription
Hearst Newspapers
Copyright Hearst Newspapers, LLC