Sport
Things to do Today
UAE Prayer Times
People & Politics
UAE Weather
SignIn
Things to do Today
UAE Prayer Times
People & Politics
UAE Weather
EditProfile
SignOut
UAE
World
Business
Sport
Arts & Life
Opinion
Blogs
Search:
UAE
Football
Arabian Gulf League
Motorsport
Cricket
Golf
Horse Racing
Tennis
Rugby
North American
Other
Comment-Sport
Leicester City have fans, and today those fans are happier than ever
In pictures
May 3, 2016
Several reports out of England today seem to be the cause of many smiling faces wearing blue. Here are some pictures.
Leicester City fans celebrate outside the stadium. (Reuters/Craig Brough)
Leicesters NGolo Kante arrives for training. (Reuters/Darren Staples)
Employee Jiratha Pawadee, 33, gives a thumbs up outside the Bangkok headquarters of King Power, a company owned by Thai magnate Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha who also knowns English Premier League champions Leicester City, the morning after Leicester clinched the chamionship on May 3, 2016. The Foxes, virtual unknowns in Thailand until they were bought by duty-free magnate Vichai Srivaddhanaprabha in 2010, have seen their popularity snowball during the title run-in. Supporters at the downtown headquarters of Vichais King Power firm spoke of their joy at the Thai link to a win in the Premier League which is assiduously watched in the kingdom. (AFP/LILLIAN SUWANRUMPHA)
Korpsin Uiamsa-ard, an assistant of chief monk Phra Prommangkalachan at the Wat Traimitr Withayaram temple, gives a thumbs-up as he holds up a Leicester City banner in Bangkok, Thailand, Tuesday, May 3, 2016. The Buddhist temple has turned overnight into a venerated site for Leicester City's fans, at least in Thailand. After all, it was Prommangkalachan, who some months ago had predicted that the team, which was a 5,000-1 outsider at the start of the season, will win the English Premier League title. (AP Photo/Mark Baker)
Leicesters Danny Drinkwater and Andy King (L) arrive for training( Reuters/Darren Staples)
Leicesters Wes Morgan arrives for training. (Reuters Darren Staples)
Leicesters Leonardo Ulloa and Robert Huth share a joke as they come out for training. (Reuters/Darren Staples)
Leicesters Marcin Wasilewski arrives for training. (Reuters/Darren Staples)
Leicesters Shinji Okazaki arrives for training. (Reuters/Darren Staples)
General view of a Motorbike outside the training ground. (Reuters/Darren Staples)
Related
Where will Leicester City finish in the Premier League next season?
Eden Hazard delivers to Leicester the most brilliant and unlikely of sporting triumphs
Leicester City fans celebrate unlikeliest of titles
in pictures
Beating Liverpool, dismantling Man City and five key games to Leicesters title triumph
Last Laugh: Leicester Citys Claudio Ranieri, from Tinkerman to unthinkable Title Man
More from Sport
Manchester City train to attempt to top Real Madrid
in pictures
Cristiano Ronaldo shows off fitness and Real Madrid train for Man City
in pictures
Leicester City have fans, and today those fans are happier than ever
In pictures
More from The National
World in focus
best photos for May 3, 2016
Manchester City train to attempt to top Real Madrid
in pictures
Cristiano Ronaldo shows off fitness and Real Madrid train for Man City
in pictures
Most viewed
UAE leaders welcome King Abdullah of Jordan to Abu Dhabi - in pictures
Sheikh Mohammed bin Zayed hosts members of peace promotion forum - in pictures
World in focus
best photos for May 1, 2016
FOLLOW US
About us
Contact us
Work with us
Privacy policy
Terms and conditions
Advertise with us
Subscribe
Sitemap
super.ae
alittihad.ae
thenational.ae
anazahra.com
ngalarabiya.com
adtv.ae
adradio.ae
admedia.ae