Receive Updates
MakingWaves Special Water Week Edition
The New York State Department of Environmental Conservation sent this bulletin on 05/02/2016 04:47 PM EDT
DEC Delivers - Information to keep you connected and informed from the NYS Department of Environmental Conservation
Share or view as a web page||Update preferences or unsubscribe
Special Water Week Edition
Lake Management
Celebrate Water Week by learning more about lake management and how you can help protect, restore and conserve water for the future!
Today's topic:New York has Lakes of All Sizes to Manage
Did you know?
There is no standard definition of what constitutes a lake or pond in New York State. However, the Division of Water commonly uses 7,850 as the number of lakes, reservoirs and ponds in the state. This includes over 3,000 larger named lakes (over 6.4 acres), about 500 larger unnamed ponds, and about 4,300 smaller named and unnamed waterbodies of some significance that have been included into the official count.
DEC conducts water quality sampling and evaluates these waterbodies primarily through two monitoring programs:
Lake Classification and Inventory (LCI) is conducted by DEC. This monitoring is coordinated with the Rotating Integrated Basin Studies (RIBS) Program.
The Citizens Statewide Lake Assessment Program (CSLAP) is directed by DEC, but is run by volunteers from individual lake associations.
Monitoring data collected through these programs is used to develop and implement lake management plans.
The Waterbody Inventory/Priority Waterbodies List (WI/PWL) is a compilation of water quality information for all individual waterbodies assessed in the state. The WI/PWL groups lake waterbodies into 2,100 assessment segments that cover nearly 690,000 acres (not including the two New York Great Lakes).
Test your water knowledge
What does the Division of Water announce in MakingWaves the first Friday of every month regarding water quality assessments?
What is the Rotating Integrated Basin Studies (RIBS) Program?
Learn More
On DEC's website, you can find information about:
Water Week, including the topics that will be covered the rest of the week
DEC's routine statewide monitoring programs
NYS Section 305(b) Water Quality Report, which describes the quality of all water resources in the state and whether these waters are fully supporting water supply use, recreation activities and aquatic life
NYS Section 303(d) List of Impaired/TMDL Waters, including the draft 2016 list
Answers: 1) The first Friday of every month, the Division of Water announces the individual waterbodies in the Waterbody Inventory/Priority Waterbodies List that have updated water quality assessment information. 2) RIBS is the DOW statewide lake, river and stream monitoring program. The RIBS monitoring schedule rotates to different major drainage basins in the state each year, covering the entire state every five years. The integrated monitoring and assessment in each basin is conducted over a three-year period.
The New York State Department of Environmental Conservation respects your right to privacy and welcomes your feedback.|Update preferences or unsubscribe.|Learn more about DEC Delivers.
Connect with DEC:
NOW AVAILABLE: Receive DEC's Twitter feed via email.
Andrew M. Cuomo, Governor * Basil Seggos, Acting Commissioner