

Family seeks storm shelter.

When Hurricane Gustav hit the Gulf Coast last week, Melissa North of Donaldsonville, La., was determined to ride out the storm.
North's home sustained minor damage, but problems arose when the power went out on Labor Day. She waited two days for electricity to come back, but it never did.
With the unbearable humidity, lack of running water and dwindling food supplies, North decided to take her three children, sister, nieces and what belongings they could fit in the car to stay with her cousin, Diane Francois, in Killeen.
Her calls to the Red Cross and the Federal Emergency Management Agency were not returned. Officials from Ascension Parish, where Donaldsonville is located, told North that the area was not in a state of emergency.
"Nobody was doing anything to help us," North said. "We had no water. We had no food because all the grocery stores were closed. When 90 percent of the parish doesn't have running water or electricity, I don't understand how that's not an emergency. It's like we don't exist in our own community."
North's 3-year-old niece suffered from dehydration on the way to Killeen and was transported to Scott & White Hospital in Temple over the weekend. She is still in the hospital but remains in stable condition. Her other niece has autism and has gone without medication since they left Louisiana on Thursday.
"These people came here with nothing," Francois said. "I couldn't find any assistance over the weekend. I called the Red Cross in Waco, and they told me to send them back where they came from."
North has kept in communication with friends still in Donaldsonville, which is located 35 miles west of Baton Rouge. There is still no electricity on their street and neighbors are waiting for debris to be cleared from the roads.
"It's depressing not knowing when you'll be able to go back to your home," North said. "I have to think about my kids. Their school is still closed and we're out of our home."
FEMA delays
Lester Kenyon, public information officer for Ascension Parish, said the evacuation prior to Gustav was not mandatory for residents in the parish.
"We did suffer extensive damage. We're working on getting power back in parts of the area and removing debris from roads," Kenyon said. "Only 50 percent of the east side of Donaldsonville has power. We hope to get at least 90 percent of the parish back to power in the next few days."
Kenyon said the initial relief efforts had problems when FEMA could not deliver supplies soon enough to southern Louisiana. "The relief efforts at first were delayed," he said. "FEMA probably didn't have their distribution plan set up. For a couple of days it was hairy."
Kenyon said distribution centers in the parish have adequate supplies now and are readying themselves for the potential onslaught of Hurricane Ike. Since the evacuation from Ascension Parish was voluntary, residents could return home whenever they wanted, but families like the Norths have no idea when they can go home.
Killeen shelter
Bob Roberts, manager of the Temple and Killeen Red Cross branch, said a shelter was opened in Killeen to assist Hurricane Gustav evacuees last week. The Red Cross initially planned to only open shelters in Waco and Bryan/College Station since those cities are en route for people traveling from Louisiana to Texas.
"We ended up having to open a shelter in Killeen because we kept getting calls from people requesting help in the area," Roberts said.
The shelter in Killeen was able to assist 27 evacuees during the three days it was open. Others who self-evacuated to the area stayed at a hotel or with relatives.
Roberts said it is undetermined whether a shelter will open in Killeen to embrace Hurricane Ike evacuees. Hurricane evacuees are advised to contact their local authorities prior to leaving for designated shelters.
"The ideal situation is people should be checking with their local authorities before leaving town about where to go," Roberts said. "The local emergency operation centers will tell them which shelters to go to."
Dennis Baker, Bell County emergency management coordinator, said the county participates in a statewide point-to-point shelter plan. The system pairs up a county along the Texas Gulf Coast with another county further inland, that provides shelter, food and medical services for hurricane evacuees. Bell and Brazoria counties are matched up.
Baker said this plan has been refined with input from leaders throughout the county and lessons learned from the Hurricane Katrina and Rita disasters.
"We joined the point-to-point shelter system after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005," Baker said. "We've ironed out how to go about getting food to the right shelters. Proper documentation is also required to get reimbursed for supplies through FEMA."
If an evacuation is called by officials in Brazoria, people will be transported by bus to the Bell County Expo Center and assigned to different shelters. A Web-based reporting system is set up that allows fire departments in Bell County to see what resources have been requested, names of individuals who are being transported and information on medical conditions they may have. If someone evacuates without a necessary medication, the shelter will provide them with a 30-day supply.
"The history of how people in Bell County have responded by helping others affected by disaster shows that a willingness to help our fellow Texans is there."
Melissa North is still struck by how her family wasn't able to get help in her own hometown. "We're just taking it one day at a time and hoping that tomorrow will be a better day."

