Skip to main content
Latest News
On the Campaign Trail
The Latest: DNC chair: Clinton coal comments out of care
May. 3, 2016 8:27 AM EDT
Share article
5 photos
Republican presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, waves with his wife Heidi and daughters, Caroline, right, and Catherine, during a rally at the Indiana State Fairgrounds in Indianapolis, Monday, May 2, 2016. (AP Photo/Michael Conroy)
i
WASHINGTONCopyright 2016 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.38.8951-77.0364
WASHINGTON (AP)
The Latest on campaign 2016 as voters in Indiana head to the polls for the state primary (all times Eastern):
7:45 a.m.
Hillary Clinton's supporters say she may have offended voters in politically important coal country with what she acknowledge was a misstatement
but at least she's willing to acknowledge her own mistakes. Donald Trump, they say, "never apologizes for anything."
Clinton has spent recent days West Virginia and Kentucky being heckled and explaining that she had made a "misstatement" in March when she said in an interview on CNN that she would "put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business." She was responding to a question about how her policies would benefit poor white people in Southern states. She said Monday that "whether people vote for me or not, whether they yell at me or not, it's not going to affect what I will do to help."
Democratic National Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz told CNN Tuesday that Clinton didn't change the substance of her plans for poor people in the region, adding that "when you say something that comes out in a hurtful way" it helps to let them know you still care about them.
Democratic strategist Brad Woodhouse added on the same network that the episode showed that Clinton is "someone who's willing to admit a misstatement." He said Trump, on the other hand, "is someone who never apologizes for anything."
___
3:30 a.m.
Republican Ted Cruz faces a high-stakes test for his slumping presidential campaign in Tuesday's Indiana primary, one of the last opportunities for the Texas senator to halt Donald Trump's stunning march toward the GOP nomination.
Cruz has spent the past week camped out in Indiana, securing the support of the state's governor and announcing retired technology executive Carly Fiorina as his running mate.
Yet his aides were pessimistic heading into Tuesday's voting and were prepared for Cruz to fall short, though the senator vowed to stay in the race, regardless of the results.
While Trump cannot clinch the nomination with a big win in Indiana, his path would get easier and he would have more room for error in the campaign's final contests.
SEE FULL ARTICLE
Advertisement
SEE COMMENTS
Comments
View the discussion thread.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Topics
Government and politics, Events, Elections, General news, Hillary Clinton, United States Presidential Election, Presidential elections, National elections, Primary elections, Donald Trump, Debbie Wasserman Schultz, Carly Fiorina, Ted Cruz, 2016 United States Presidential Election
Advertisement
AP Radio News:
Your browser does not support the audio element.
Get the AP Mobile app
AP Sites
Auto Racing
College Basketball
College Football
Football
Follow AP
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
LinkedIn
AP News |
2015 Associated Press
|
Privacy Policy
|
Terms of Use
|
AP Books
|
AP Images
|
ap.org