Skip to main content area
You can close this video in 5 seconds.&nbsp
CHECK OUT OUR MAGAZINE
Get a RISK-FREE issue
Give a Gift
RENEW YOUR SUBSCRIPTION
Fulltext search
Main menu
Amazing FactsLIVE SMARTERHypersonicVideosThe BiteQuizzesSubscribeStore
Secondary menu
Big Questions
Job Secrets
Language
Movies
Space
Weather
World War I
Kennections
Sections
Judy Garlands Hologram Is Going On Tour
Caitlin Schneiderfiled under: celebrities, music, Music History
Image credit:Wikimedia Commons
Like us on Facebook
Judy Garland died in 1969, but come 2017, youll be able to see the legendary actress and singer in concert, all thanks to the magic of holograms.
Hologram USAs Judy Garland Hologram Tour will debut in London and Hollywood concurrently, employing the same technology that was famously used to bring Tupac "back to life" at Coachella in 2012. The touring show is a collaboration between Hologram USA Productions and FilmOn TV, and, according to a press release, Garland was chosen because she "was named one of the most-wanted in a Hologram USA global poll about which artists audiences would most want to see in a hologram stage show."
Garland's hologram will perform some of her most famous songs, and audiences will also see her talking about her life as an entertainer. Content for the tour, which begins production in May, will come from The Judy Garland Show (which ran on CBS in the 60s), as well as a few of her specials. FilmOn TV will also stream VR and 360-degree versions of the show, and it will be available through on-demand services.
In a press release, Garlands son, Joey Luft, said of the production: "I believe the show will keep the memory of my mother and her talent alive for years to come."
If Judy Garland doesnt float your boat but you love the idea of a hologram concert, youre in luck: Hologram USA Productions and FilmOn TV say they are working with the estates of Patsy Cline, Buddy Holly, Billie Holiday, Dean Martin, and Whitney Houston to produce similar shows.
More from mental_floss...
38 Wonderful Words With No English Equivalent
8 Movies That Changed Movies
9 Houses Built Just for Spite
The Russians Didn't Just Use Pencils in Space
May 3, 2016 - 8:30am
View the discussion thread.
.
POPULAR ON mental_floss
Viewed
Past:
1 day
1 week
1 month
1 year
POPULAR ON mental_floss
Layla in Real Life: 10 Songs Written About Pattie Boyd
9 Movies That Were Supposed to Be Sequels to Other Movies
11 Actors Who Asked for Their Characters to Be Killed Off
POPULAR ON mental_floss
10 Records You Might Have Owned That Are Now Worth a Fortune
8 Psychological Tricks of Restaurant Menus
11 Products Where Generic Is Just as Good as Name Brand
POPULAR ON mental_floss
16 Accelerated Facts About Quantum Leap
10 Minutes of Dominos Falling
11 Tips from Chefs for Cooking Perfect Eggs
POPULAR ON mental_floss
11 Things You Might Not Know About Eggs
The Brains of Anxious People May Perceive the World Differently
Name the TV Show in One Clue
POPULAR ON mental_floss
Washing Your Hair in Space
Neurotic People May Be More Likely to See Faces in Objects
The Best Amazon Deals We Could Find Today, May 2
POPULAR ON mental_floss
Answer These 15 General Knowledge Trivia Questions
Study Confirms What We Already Knew: Living Near Water Can Reduce Stress
Photographer Captures Subjects After a Glass (or Two, or Three) of Wine
NEWSLETTER
A super-skimmable daily digest.
Also on Mental Floss:
About
RSS
Privacy
Terms
Contact
Subscribe
Store
Give a Gift
Customer Service
Newsletter
TEXT Mental Floss, Inc. All rights reserved. Mental Floss is a registered trademark owned by Felix Dennis. mentalfloss.com is a trademark owned by Felix Dennis.