Skip to Content
Skip to Main Navigation
Skip to Information Links
Skip to Site Search
Skip to Footer
Skip to Accessibility Information
Home Page
Information Links
Sign in
Register
Bulletins
Advertise
Subscribe
Third SectorMainNet
Main Navigation
Search
Home
Jobs
News
Views
Knowledge
FR Week
Fundraising
Finance
Digital
Governance
Communications
Management
Policy
Big Stories
Email Bulletins
RSS Newsfeeds
Star Supporters
Good Practice
Webcasts
Surveys
Expert Reports
Research
Expert Hub
Careers
Fundraising Week 2016
Awards
Concern Worldwide apologises after charging direct debit donors 100 times more than pledged
03 May 2016
by Susannah Birkwood,
Be the First to Comment
The mistake has affected donations from almost 25,000 people and the charity has asked an audit firm to carry out an investigation
Concern Worldwide has charged almost 25,000 direct debit supporters up to 100 times the amount they had pledged to the charity after an administrative error.
The international poverty charity spent the weekend apologising to the 24,700 people who were affected by the blunder, which meant that regular givers who pledged 5 a month were instead charged as much as 500.
It has vowed to refund the supporters what is likely to amount to millions of pounds, as well as any bank charges or fees they incurred as a result of the unexpected withdrawal of funds.
A spokeswoman for Concern Worldwide said the charity has launched an external investigation led by the accountancy firm KPMG to find out what went wrong. She said it was not possible to say at this stage how much money was involved.
The charity initially told people it would refund them directly after the error first emerged last Friday. But on Sunday it changed its advice, saying that affected supporters would get their money back sooner if they filed an indemnity claim with their banks. They should then get an automatic refund within 48 hours, the charity said on its website.
Scores of supporters complained to the charity on Twitter. Hannah Boulton tweeted: "Absolutely not on - an admin error causing a 400 direct debit from my account? To save future issues I will no longer be donating."
Sophie Whitehead said: "Well thanks @Concern for giving me a really stressful start to the week."
Concern Worldwide has been responding to tweets with apologies and advice, as well as texting supporters and setting up a new helpline for those with concerns. Some people have complained about the "cut and paste" nature of the charitys tweets.
"We would like to apologise unreservedly for the error and any problems this may have caused supporters," said a statement from Rose Caldwell, the charitys UK executive director.
The charity also said on its website: "As soon as we discovered the mistake we immediately contacted our bank to try to stop them being processed but unfortunately it was too late for us to do so."
It added: "It is not an error made by the bank. We take full responsibility for the mistake."
The charity said it was the first time this had happened during the more than 10 years it has run its direct debit programme.
The environmental organisation Greenpeace experienced a similar situation in 2006, when it was obliged to reimburse thousands of supporters after a direct debit error saw donations of 100 times their normal level leave their bank accounts.
Greenpeace blamed the mistake on a combination of human error and its computer system. It said the computer key that processed the direct debits in pounds was wrongly pressed instead of the one for pence.
Share this article
Tweet
Related Articles
Alcohol charity suffers 'gut-wrenching' 10k email fraud
Information Commissioner takes action against Alzheimer's Society over data use
More on this Topic
Sense quiet on claims it has closed its corporate fundraising department
Big Lottery Fund criticised for giving 250k grant to website that attracted 340 users
Institute of Fundraising criticised for confusion over EU data protection rules
HMRC clarifies position on donations from social giving websites
Charities better off in EU, claims Damian Hinds
Before commenting please read our rules for commenting on articles.
If you see a comment you find offensive, you can flag it as inappropriate. In the top right-hand corner of an individual comment, you will see 'flag as inappropriate'. Clicking this prompts us to review the comment. For further information see our rules for commenting on articles.
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus
Follow us on:
Latest Jobs
Public Affairs & PR Manager
Royal British Legion Industries
Aylesford, Kent
Caseworker
Manchester Action on Street Health
Manchester, Greater Manchester
Senior Community Fundraising Manager
The Childrens Trust
Tadworth, Surrey
Corporate Fundraising Manager
Royal British Legion Industries
Aylesford, Kent with UK wide travel
Communications Manager
Polly Symondson Recruitment Ltd
Bristol (City Centre), City of Bristol
Search more jobs
Send me jobs by email
Third Sector Insight
Sponsored webcasts, surveys and expert reports from Third Sector partners
Charity trustees & risk management - planning for the unforeseen
Todays charity leaders have a lot...
Report: How do charities gain the support of major donors?
In austere times with continued government...
Choosing an online fundraising platform
This report reveals insights from a survey...
More Third Sector Insight
Expert Hub
Insurance advice from Markel
Video: Importance of watertight abuse cover
Recent abuse claims highlight the need for care organisations to have robust abuse cover, as this video from Markel shows
Help & Information
About Third Sector
Contact Us
Advertiser Information
Terms & Conditions
Privacy
Cookie Policy
Accessibility
FAQ
Editorial Complaint?
Subscription & Registration
Subscribe to Third Sector
Register
Free Trial
Subscriber web account activation
Acevo member registration
Third Sector App
News
News & Analysis
Big Stories
Star Supporters
Email Bulletins
RSS Newsfeeds
Channels
Fundraising
Finance
Digital
Governance
Management
Communications
Policy & Politics
Volunteering
Social Enterprise
Local Action
Good Practice
Knowledge
Fundraising Good Practice
Finance Good Practice
Governance Good Practice
Communications Good Practice
Management Good Practice
Expert Hub
Site Sections
Careers
Classified Advertising
Events
Awards
Partner Sites
Third Sector Research
Third Sector Jobs
Third Sector Volunteering
Business Charity Awards
Third Sector Awards
Haymarket Media Group Ltd. | Terms & Conditions