
Director says diabetes one of the biggest problems in the High Desert.

With April being Limb Loss Awareness Month, Carrie Dixon said her medical facility is saving lives and healing one wound at a time. Dixon, who serves as wound care director, said with diabetes affecting so many in the High Desert, the Center for Wound Care and Hyperbaric Medicine at St. Joseph Health, St. Mary makes approximately 400 to 500 appointments each month, with diabetic foot ulcers the most common issue. She added that her facility will host an open house in May for those wanting more information. We care for many people, but the biggest frustration is that despite an opportunity to be treated
many people just dont come in, Dixon told the Daily Press. Many people who have diabetes dont know they have it, and those that do know dont follow up. Some 29 million people in the U.S. have diabetes, with about 25 percent experiencing a diabetic foot ulcer in their lifetime, according to information provided by Dixon. Dixon said proper treatment of wounds is critical and will prevent medical complications and possible amputation. She added that the center has many success stories, including one senior who suffered from a diabetic foot ulcer. According to Dixon, the person had surgery and returned to the center with a pressure ulcer. The person was receiving dialysis multiple times a week and was taken off the kidney transplant list because of the foot wound. As the only specialized wound care clinic in the High Desert, we were able to get the foot healed with advanced therapies, said Dixon, who shared that the senior eventually was placed back on the donor list and later received a new kidney. They no longer require dialysis, they can walk normally and they have their quality of life back. Dixon said the center is advanced in the sense that it offers skin grafts, biologic skin substitutes and hyperbaric chambers, which all aid in the healing process. Complacency is the biggest hurdle in getting treatment, Dixon said. If you have a heart problem, youll get to the doctor as soon as possible, but most wounds are not visible, which leads to an out-of-sight, out-of-mind mentality. Being diabetic could be just as fatal if not controlled. Beside complications that come from untreated wounds, diabetes can affect eyesight, heart function and other parts of the body, Dixon said. In the High Desert, we are seeing many Hispanics who have diabetes, Dixon said. Our clients are mostly Hispanic and many of them said theyve suffered from wounds and sores for years, but avoided treatment. Raul Medina, chair of the CX3 project that reaches the Hispanic community with the message of healthy living through the California Health Action Network, said the High Desert Hispanic community has been seriously affected by the national diabetes epidemic. Its not part of our culture to see the doctor, Medina said. But things are changing over the years and most of our younger people understand the importance of being healthy. Dixon said the center, which serves all ages, also treats lower-extremity wounds, vascular problems, some burns, ulcers and other medical issues. She added the wound center will continue its aggressive outreach not only to the local Hispanic community, but to the entire High Desert. We salvage limbs on a daily basis, but we cant do that unless people take the effort to come forward, Dixon said. If you dont take care of your cars engine it will go out
that concept goes for the human body as well. The Center for Wound Care and Hyperbaric Medicine has scheduled an open house, which will include an address by Dr. Charles Ananian, free ABI testing and aortic screening, and opportunity drawings. The open house is scheduled from 9 a.m. to 3 p.m. May 21 at the center, 16077 Kamana Road in Apple Valley. For more information, visit www.stmaryapplevalley.org or call 760-242-2111. Rene Ray De La Cruz may be reached at 760-951-6227, RDeLa Cruz@VVDailyPress.com or on Twitter @DP_ReneDeLaCruz.

