Advertisement
YOU ARE HERE: LAT HomeCollectionsHunger in a Land of Plenty :
County Comes Together to Spotlight a Growing ProblemOctober 16, 1988|LAURA KURTZMAN | Times Staff Writer
Veronica Alcantar and Jesus Gonzalez looked bewildered and frightened as they waited in line with their young daughters for a bag of free groceries at a Costa Mesa emergency center.The couple in their 20s had been out of work for two weeks, they said. Neighbors in Santa Ana had helped them as much as they could. But after Alcantar used the last of their meager funds to buy diapers for 11-month-old Jessica, she and her husband decided to swallow their pride and come to Share Our Selves, one of many nonprofit charitable agencies in Orange County that dispense food, clothing, supplies and rent vouchers to the hungry and homeless."We don't know what to do," Alcantar said, looking desperately at the baby and 6-year-old Michelle, who were exhausted from the long morning wait at the center. "We need to work, because we need to support these children. We need to get them Pampers. We need to get them food and medical attention."Elsewhere, a disabled former limousine driver who lives on $70 a week reluctantly takes food from her church and the Salvation Army in Anaheim. A 95-year-old Costa Mesa woman's only meal each day is lunch at a local senior center.They are but a handful of the estimated tens of thousands of people in Orange County who depend on food handouts to make it through each month. They include single mothers, seniors on fixed incomes, the disabled, minimum-wage earners, the homeless. And those who feed them say their numbers are on the rise.To highlight the growing problem, the County Board of Supervisors and leaders of 15 cities have declared this Hunger Week in Orange County. Schools, churches and businesses around the county have organized food drives to collect donations for local food banks, which mostly depend on private giving now that stores of surplus government commodities are nearly exhausted.Food providers say they hope Hunger Week will draw public attention to a problem few associate with opulent Orange County, where the median annual income is $45,176, according to the county's demographer."I think too many people believe that hunger does not really exist in Orange County, and that poor people don't really exist," said Dianna Turner, assistant director of Feedback Foundation, which operates a countywide lunch program for seniors.'A lot of what we hear is, 'Well, it doesn't really happen here.' And I think it's imperative that there's really more awareness of what's going on in our back yard," she said.Just how many of Orange County's more than 2.2 million residents rely on charity to feed themselves is not known.In 1980, the Federal Emergency Management Agency estimated that 320,000 county residents had to seek food handouts or went hungry at least once during each month. Since then, food providers say the number of people coming to community centers, food banks, soup kitchens and shelters has jumped alarmingly.At Share Our Selves, for example, the number of people seeking food has jumped about 20% since 1984. Likewise, at Southwest Community Center in Santa Ana, the number of people seeking hot meals has risen about 20% from 95,000 in 1985 to 116,000 in 1987. During the same period, the number of families seeking free food baskets has nearly doubled, center officials say."There are more (hungry people) than this county can handle," said Jim Hamlett, spokesman for the Community Development Council, which runs one of the county's two main food banks. "And it doesn't get less, it gets more."Food providers cite numerous reasons for the increased need, including cutbacks in federal programs for the poor and the county's growing population. But the major reason people need food handouts, providers say, is the astronomical cost of housing in Orange County, where the median rent has risen to more than $700 a month."For some to afford to live in this county is just out of sight," said Warren Johnson, business administrator for the Salvation Army in Santa Ana. "It forces them to make some uncomfortable decisions. And that is that their own well-being comes last in priorities. They literally work day in and day out to pay for their car and their home, just to survive."The problem is especially acute for those on fixed incomes.Irene Merrill, 95, lives in a mobile home in Costa Mesa. She pays $300 of the $500 she gets from Social Security each month to rent her trailer space. Next month, her rent will go up about $20. Her Social Security will not.Merrill buys a few groceries at a nearby store. But the only real meal she eats each day is at the senior center in Costa Mesa's Rea Community Center."I don't eat all of my lunch here," said the frail, white-haired Merrill, who walks with halting steps. "What I take home, I usually eat in the evening. It's awful hard to make ends meet."1 | 2 | 3 |
Next
MORE:Seizure Led to FloJo's DeathHis 104 scores make his caseRestaurant review: South Beverly GrillBrutal Murder by Teen-Age Girls Adds to Britons' ShockComaneci Confirms Suicide Attempt, Magazine SaysAdvertisement
FROM THE ARCHIVESReno woman's home has become a veritable food bankDecember 25, 2010At food bank, some givers are now receiversNovember 26, 2009Taxi Ride Voucher Program Expands :
Social services: Agencies assisting the needy throughout the county will distribute passes for free trips to doctors' offices, food banks and shelters.January 28, 1993Caring for Their Own :
Mormon Warehouses Provide Food for Those Deemed Temporarily in NeedMay 13, 1989Leftover Laws :
Legal Stew Keeps Food From NeedyJanuary 14, 1988Copyright 2016 Los Angeles TimesTerms of Service|Privacy Policy|Index by Date|Index by Keyword