RSS Feeds
Sitewide | Earth | Heavens | Body | Brain | Culture| Technology
Home
Earth
Heavens
Body
Brain
Culture
Tech
Nutrient supplements can give antidepressants a boost
Posted By News On April 26, 2016 - 4:30am
Tweet
An international evidence review has found that certain nutritional supplements can increase the effectiveness of antidepressants for people with clinical depression.
Omega 3 fish oils, S-adenosylmethionine (SAMe)*, methylfolate (bioactive form of folate) and Vitamin D, were all found to boost the effects of medication.
University of Melbourne and Harvard researchers examined 40 clinical trials worldwide, alongside a systematic review of the evidence for using nutrient supplements (known as nutraceuticals) to treat clinical depression in tandem with antidepressants such as SSRIs**, SNRIs^ and tricyclics^^.
Head of the ARCADIA Mental Health Research Group at the University of Melbourne, Dr Jerome Sarris, led the meta-analysis, published today in the American Journal of Psychiatry.
"The strongest finding from our review was that Omega 3 fish oil - in combination with antidepressants - had a statistically significant effect over a placebo," Dr Sarris said.
"Many studies have shown Omega 3s are very good for general brain health and improving mood, but this is the first analysis of studies that looks at using them in combination with antidepressant medication.
"The difference for patients taking both antidepressants and Omega 3, compared to a placebo, was highly significant. This is an exciting finding because here we have a safe, evidence-based approach that could be considered a mainstream treatment."
The University of Melbourne research team also found good evidence for methylfolate, Vitamin D, and SAMe as a mood enhancing therapy when taken with antidepressants. They reported mixed results for zinc, vitamin C and tryptophan (an amino acid). Folic acid didn't work particularly well, nor did inositol.
"A large proportion of people who have depression do not reach remission after one or two courses of antidepressant medication," Dr Sarris said.
"Millions of people in Australia and hundreds of millions worldwide currently take antidepressants. There's real potential here to improve the mental health of people who have an inadequate response to them."
Dr Sarris said medical professionals may be hesitant to prescribe nutraceuticals alongside pharmaceuticals, simply because there has been a lack of scientific evidence around their efficacy.
"Medical practitioners are aware of the benefits of omega 3 fatty acids, but are probably unaware that one can combine them with antidepressant medication for a potentially better outcome," he said.
The researchers found no major safety concerns in combining the two therapies, but stressed that people on antidepressants should always consult with their health professional before taking nutraceuticals and should be aware these supplements can differ in quality.
"We're not telling people to rush out and buy buckets of supplements. Always speak to your medical professional before changing or initiating a treatment," Dr Sarris said.
The researchers are currently conducting a National Health and Medical Research Council study using a combination of these nutraceuticals for depression.
Source: University of Melbourne
Recent Articles:
Despite efforts, childhood obesity remains on the rise
Nutrient supplements can give antidepressants a boost
Trabecular bone score validated as standalone predictor of fracture risk
Does frequent sex lead to better relationships? Depends on how you ask
UBC study finds psychedelic drugs may reduce domestic violence
more
ACSH:
If You Like A Greener Earth, Thank CO2
New York Environmental Carpetbaggers Get Schooled By California Science
Doctors Look After Our Mental Health; Who Looks After Theirs?
On E-Cigarettes, Tobacco Control Experts Ask FDA to Focus On the Good
more
Science 2.0:
Fighting Against Counterfeit Medicine
If Your Favorite Brand Is Sincere, Is Innovation What You Expect?
How Researchers Teach Bacteria New Behaviors
For The Indiana Jones In You: How To Find Lost Treasure
New Hampshire Infants Who Ate Rice Had Higher Urinary Concentrations Of Arsenic
more
Science CodexPromote Your Page Too
We allow third-party companies to serve ads and/or collect anonymous information. These companies may use non-personally identifiable information (browser type, time and date) in order to provide advertisements about goods and services likely to be of greater interest to you. These companies typically use a cookie or third party web beacon to collect this information. To learn more about this behavioral advertising practice or to opt-out of this type of advertising, please visit networkadvertising.org.