Employers
VCs
Sign In
Dashboard
Search Jobs
Browse Jobs
Your Profile
Advanced Search
Within 50 kilometers
AUBEBRCACNCZDKFIFRDEHKISINIEILITJPKRNLNZNOPHRUSGESSECHAEGBUS
Countries
Return to Basic Search
Build a custom search by adding criteria below
Add Criteria
Back to Search
Apply Now
Follow @startuphire
Miami, FL Categories:Accounting Jobs in Miami, FLDeveloper Jobs in Miami, FLEngineering Jobs in Miami, FLIT Jobs in Miami, FLMarketing Jobs in Miami, FLMobile Jobs in Miami, FLSales Jobs in Miami, FL Search by Job TitleMarketing Internship JobsInternships JobsSales Intern JobsParalegal JobsMarketing Intern JobsSocial Media Intern JobsGraphic Design Intern Jobs
Paralegal Internship Open English
inShare
Location: Miami, FL, United States Date Posted: 04-15-2016 Apply Now
Position Overview:
Open English has a newly created temp position for a Corporate Paralegal/Paralegal Internship. This full/part-time temp position will report to the Director of Legal Affairs assisting him with a wide array of activities legal services across the company, working with various functions and levels of the organization.
Responsibilities:
This person will have passion for the legal industry and new technologies.
Ideal candidate have at least two (2) years working for an in-house legal department and have experience in various corporate affairs.
Assist with corporate documents, notices of meetings, resolutions, consents, minutes and corporate governance records
Assist in the preparation, filing and uploading of company's organizational documents to the internal electronic database.
Assist in the preparation of transactional documents (contracts, NDAs, vendor agreements, formal notices, affidavits, others) and Handling all steps for contract execution and recordation (signatures, scanning, distribution of final materials and keep proper filing and archives).
Assist team members to maintain Company?s Intellectual Property registrations and records of all trademark and patent applications and registrations worldwide.
Conduct legal research and prepare memoranda about legal articles, treaties and legal framework related to tax, intellectual property and consumer affairs.
Organize and maintain legal calendar, files, checklists and other administrative needs of the Legal Director.
Requirements:
Minimum 2+ years of recent related experience as a corporate paralegal in a law firm or in?house department.
Bachelor?s Degree or Associate's degree with an emphasis on Paralegal studies or equivalent work experience.
Excellent organizational skills with the ability to work well under pressure and multi-task in a fast-paced environment
Excellent command of English grammar and typing skills (Spanish is a plus).
A sense of humor, an energetic personality and eager to join a team of high performing professionals.
Why join Open English?
Open English is the leading online English school in Latin America and in the U.S. Hispanic market. The company was founded in 2006 to reinvent the way to teach English, while meeting needs of today?s busy professionals. Today, Open English has more than 100,000 students in over 40 countries. By joining Open English now, our startup culture will enable you to make a deep impact in people's life, learning and growing in a highly energetic, multicultural and global minded work environment.
Open English Headquarter?s office is an open and beautifully office space centrally located in the heart of Coconut Grove area. The salary for this position will be commensurate with experience. We offer medical, vision and dental coverage and parking spot!
If you are qualified and interested, please send me your resume in .doc or .pdf format to diego.dominguez@openenglish.com
Location:
Miami, FL
United States
Save This Job Apply NowE-mail To A Friend
Open English
Investors: Flybridge Capital Partners All Jobs: at Open English
Web Site:www.openenglish.com
Headquarters:00000
United States
Support Open English with Social Media services
Find more Paralegal Internship jobs
Close
More jobs at venture capital backed companies.
Near Miami, FL
The StartUpHire web site requires javascript to function properly.
Home
Dashboard
Search Jobs
Browse Jobs
Blog
Your Profile
About StartUpHire
Team
In The News
Press Releases
Partners
FAQ
Contact Us
Preferences
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Employers
Talent Vault
Auto-Recruiter
Featured Company
Social Media Mega
Venture Investors
Portfolio Jobs
Executive Database
Social Media Mega
Support the Industry
Copyright 2016 StartUpHireWeb Development by Zurka Interactive