Digital Access
Subscribe
Home
Blogs
Stripes Central
Archive Photo of the Day
Spouse Calls
Good Game
Pacific Sports
Europe Sports
Europe Traveler
Pacific Storm Tracker
Ombudsman's Blog
Multimedia
Store
Weather
Site Map
Email Newsletters
Mobile Apps
e-Books
Veteran Home Loan Info
Veteran Jobs
News
U.S.
Veterans
VA Loan Information
Veteran Job Center
Europe
Middle East
Pacific
Americas
Africa
Branches
Army
Navy
Air Force
Marine Corps
Coast Guard
Special Reports
Medal of Honor
Vietnam at 50
Wounded Warriors
Heroes
Suicide
PTSD
TBI
Stolen Valor
Sexual assault in the military
Civilian LQA
Chaos at JPAC
Vietnam at 50
Vietnam 1965: Stumbling Into War
Fighting in Vietnam
Cultural Revolution
Lasting Legacy
Casualties, POW & MIA
Voices of Vietnam
My Experience
Sports
Europe
Europe Sports Blog
Pacific
Pacific Sports Blog
Travel
Europe
Destinations
Transportation
Lodging
Special Interest
Tips & Tools
Europe Traveler Blog
Pacific
Destinations
Transportation
Lodging
Special Interest
Tips & Tools
Military Life
On the Move (PCS)
Education
Military History
Video Games
Newspuzzle
Spouse Calls
Community Sites
Stripes Guam
Stripes Japan
Stripes Korea
Stripes Okinawa
Opinion
Letters
Ombudsman
Classifieds
Europe
Pacific
Rewards
Book Club
Rules
Winners
Digital Editions
Stars and Stripes
Mideast Edition
Sunday Comics
Stripes Lite
Special Publications
Contact Us
Advertise with Us
Webmaster
Directory
Reporters
Site Map
Home Delivery
Stripes PrintShop
Jobs
About Us
Customer Service
Contact Webmaster
Archive Services
Reprint Requests
eNewsletters
Home Delivery
Stripes Store
Stripes PrintShop
Stripes Photo Store
Digital Access Home
Print/iPad Subscribers
FAQs
Tech Support
Help
Tablet Edition iPad App
Send Feedback
Gift Subscriptions
Advertisement
Home
/
News
32 minutes ago
N. Korea prepares for massive show of unity in rare ruling party congress
By
Kim Gamel
Stars and Stripes
Published: May 3, 2016
Related
Satellite photos: Unclear if 5th N. Korean nuclear test imminent
The latest satellite images of North Koreas underground test facility provide no clarity on whether the provocative country may carry out its fifth nuclear test ahead of the ruling Workers Party congress on Friday, a Washington-based think tank says.
ANALYSIS
It's party time in North Korea ... Workers' Party party time.
North Korea will hold a congress of its ruling Workers' Party starting this Friday
the seventh time in the country's history such an event has been held, but the first time since 1980. Clearly, this is a big deal for the regime, and here's why.
Obama: US 'setting up a shield' to block North Korean missiles
President Obama said that the United States is re-positioning its missile defense system in the wake of provocative actions from North Korea, but he acknowledged that the isolated Northeast Asian nation poses a "massive challenge" for the United States and its allies.
Brooks takes command of USFK as allies face new challenges from the North
SEOUL, South Korea
North Korea is gearing up for its first ruling party congress in more than three decades, with enigmatic leader Kim Jong Un giving few hints about what he will do once he takes center stage.
The 7th Workers Party Congress is due to start Friday, four months after the North staged its fourth nuclear test, followed by a long-range rocket test that prompted harsh new U.N. sanctions. Both are part of the countrys stated goal of being able to strike at the U.S. mainland.
The 30-something leader took the reins more than four years ago, but North Korea watchers say the high-profile meeting will allow him to emerge from the shadows of his father and grandfather, who ruled before him in the worlds first communist family dynasty.
The party congress is going to basically cut the training wheels off the bicycle, said Michael Madden, an expert on the isolated countrys leadership.
The U.S. and its allies will be watching closely for major military or economic policy changes from Kim.
So far, he has continued the family tradition of pursuing nuclear weapons, provoking crises and keeping a tight rein on the populace. He also is trying to boost an economy that is suffering so badly that basic medicines were in short supply even before the new sanctions.
China, the closest thing the North has to an ally because Beijing likes a buffer with democratic South Korea, has grown increasingly impatient with Kim over his weapons programs and will be looking for a sign of moderation.
China sent a large delegation to the previous party congress, which formalized Kim Jong-ils status as leader-in-waiting. But it is not expected to send anybody to this one.
The secretive nation of about 24 million people has released few details about the meeting other than a start date. It launched a 70-day loyalty campaign in February, calling on workers to work overtime to boost production levels.
Experts say Kim may use the congress as a platform to declare the success of his so-called byungjin policy of simultaneously pursuing a nuclear program and economic development.
He wants to build nuclear weapons and hes going to continue to do that, Madden said. And hes going to try, despite the horrifying sanctions regime, to develop the economy.
North Korea has seen some economic growth under Kims regime, mainly in the capital Pyongyang, where the elite live. But malnutrition remains a major problem. The country recently warned that an arduous journey lies ahead that will include food shortages, which hit hard in the mid-1990s, the last time China went along with sanctions.
Kim could also use the gathering of thousands of party delegates from across the country as a chance to reshuffle the ranks and install fellow millennial members, Madden said. Kim already has shaken up the regimes hierarchy with a series of executions, including of his powerful uncle in 2013, and other high-level purges.
Or he may just take on a new title. South Korean news agency Yonhap reported that Kim has three titles
first secretary of the Workers Party, first chairman of the National Defense Commission and supreme military commander. Yonhap quoted a source familiar with North Korea affairs as saying Kim may become chairman of the partys central committee
a post that had been abolished.
The fact that Kim convened the congress is in itself a statement. His father Kim Jong-il didnt hold one, but analysts say the young leader is looking to legitimize his rule by restoring the partys authority.
Kim Jong Un, who is believed to be 33, was not even born when the last Congress was held in 1980, and he had little training or military experience when he inherited power after his father died of a heart attack in December 2011.
The third and youngest son of Kim Jong Il, he reportedly became the heir-apparent after his older half-brother fell out of favor, and there has been speculation that he has faced resistance because of his relative youth in a Confucian society that prizes experience.
He hopes to use this meeting to finalize the consolidation of his authority and emphasize his ruling policy of byungjin, said Katharine H.S. Moon, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institutions Center for East Asia Policy Studies. In the larger sense, (Kim) is rebuilding the institutions of governance that fell apart during the Great Famine of the 1990s under his fathers watch.
Kim has sought to align his leadership with grandfather Kim Il Sung, the Soviet-backed revolutionary hero who founded the country. The younger Kim has appeared in public more than his reclusive father and revived his grandfathers tradition of giving a New Years speech on state television.
The pressure of U.N. sanctions has failed to curb his nuclear ambitions. Instead, the North has continued with a steady drumbeat of missile tests and threats to use nuclear weapons against the U.S. and South Korea. He is also keeping the world guessing about whether another nuclear test could serve as a grand entrance.
South Koreas military has been on high alert for weeks. President Barack Obama recently called the North a massive challenge and said the U.S. was preparing a shield to protect itself from relatively low-level threats from the regime. Analysts warn against taking the Norths threats too lightly, saying even recent missile test failures provide lessons for its scientists.
Kim Joon-hyung, a professor in international politics at South Koreas Handong Global University, said the North Korean leader is ready to put his own stamp on power.
Kim looks like he wants to proclaim a new era
to show the world Its the era of Kim Jong Un.
Stars and Stripes staffer Yoo Kyong Chang contributed to this report.
gamel.kim@stripes.com
Twitter: @kimgamel
Join the conversation and share your voice.
Show Comments
Comments Policy
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Advertisement
Editors' picks
Some other top stories on stripes.com.
FEATURE REPORT
5 years later, CIA live-tweets bin Ladens death
To mark the fifth anniversary of the raid in Pakistan that left Osama bin Laden dead, the CIA on Sunday tweeted the operation as if it were happening today.
Terminator meets with troops while filming documentary in Kuwait
A television project on climate change brought Arnold Schwarzenegger to two of the hottest U.S. military posts on earth, where the Terminator took some time out for the troops.
Headstone fixes error for MOH recipient more than 140 years after rescue
A Canadian-born sailor was remembered during a ceremony in Washington last week, more than 140 years after a heroic deed earned him Americas highest military medal
a honor that was omitted on his headstone.
Most Read
Reddit
Comments
US military tests world's largest unmanned ship, designed to cross oceans
May 2, 2016
Nine soldiers punished for brawl in Seoul entertainment district
May 2, 2016
2 Navy civilians die in separate incidents in Bahrain
May 2, 2016
Marines investigating claim about men in Iwo Jima photo
May 2, 2016
US servicemember killed in combat in Iraq
May 3, 2016
Terminator meets with troops while filming documentary in Kuwait
May 2, 2016
Navy senior chief charged with stealing identities of subordinates
April 29, 2016
Afghan military threatens strong response to Pakistani incursions
May 2, 2016
New Balance snub latest in long line of Pentagon miscues
May 1, 2016
West Point returns bell taken from Philippines church 100 years ago
April 29, 2016
Advertisement
Latest Blogs
Archive Photo of the Day
Weightlifter Tommy Kono, 1952
Archive Photo of the Day
Helping hand, 1966
Archive Photo of the Day
Thunderbirds, 1965
Archive Photo of the Day
Unpopular Soviets, 1962
Europe Traveler
Check these old favorite bands on tour
A slew of bands that emerged in decades well past are still going strong and continue to tour. Here's a sampling of a few old favorites that may be coming to a venue near you.
Archive Photo of the Day
USS Oklahoma City, 1974
Archive Photo of the Day
Pinball in Bosnia, 1998
Archive Photo of the Day
Dynamite, 1968
Military Child
Air Ticket Giveaway
Shot of Season
Military Child
What's Your Story? April is Month of the Military Child and we want your stories! It doesn't have to be long, but don't feel like it has to be short, either. Just tell us what's on your mind.
Air Ticket Giveaway
We're giving away two round-trip air tickets to eligible Pacific Subscribers. Learn more!
Shot of Season
Send in your best high school sports shots from DODDS games and win a GoPro!
Advertisement
Tweets by @starsandstripes
Sign up for our free Newsletters:
Daily Headlines |
Weekly Update |
Opinion |
Veterans |
Military History
Home |
Archives |
Stripes Lite |
Ombudsman |
Advertising |
About Us |
Feedback |
Contact Us |
Site Map
2016 Stars and Stripes. All Rights Reserved.
Disclaimer |
Comment Policy |
Web Notices and Privacy Policy |
Archive content policy |
Accessibility/Section 508