Serving the Grand Lake area since 1848 Celina, Ohio
Home
Subscribe
E-Edition
Archives
Stories
Pictures
Obituaries
Search
Sports
Photo Albums
Video
Classifieds
Public Notices
Advertising
Contacts
Forms
Locations
World Pictures
Community
Sudoku
Gas Calculator
Obituaries Archive
Entire Day Archive
Monday, May 2nd, 2016
Complete Obituary
Elaine Detwiler
Elaine M. Detwiler, age 91, of Celina, passed away Saturday morning, April 30, 2016, at the Otterbein Senior Lifestyle Community in St. Marys.
Born November 7, 1924 in Wyatt, IN, she was a daughter of the late John H. & Genevieve (Shuler) Mottice. Elaine and Paul H. "Red" Detwiler were married on October 6, 1946.
He survives, along with their Children: Diane (Ron) Seibert of St. Marys and Scott (Annette) Detwiler of Bloomington, IL, 3 Grandchildren: Christopher (Cary) Seibert, Brian Seibert, and Kimmy Detwiler, and 3 Great Grandchildren: Madeline, Nicholas & Alexander Seibert.
She was preceded in death by her Sister & Brother-in-law: Janice & Tom Mauro.
A graduate of Madison Township High School in Wakarusa, IN, Elaine had attended Purdue University, and then Saint Mary-of-the-Woods College in Terre Haute, IN, where she received her Bachelor's Degree.
Elaine had been a preschool teacher in Fort Wayne, and later volunteered at Cheryl Ann School in Celina, during the early stages of their program. Subsequently, she became a special education teacher at the school, and worked for many years at Cheryl Ann, also assisting with their Special Olympics events.
She was a member of Phi Mu Sorority, University Women's Club, and the History Club, and enjoyed playing Bridge. Elaine was an avid Purdue sports fan, and particularly enjoyed watching football and basketball games. A member of the Coldwater United Methodist Church, Elaine had been very active in her younger years, having done a variety of church work.
Funeral Services will be held at 12:00 Noon, Wednesday, May 4, at W.H. Dick & Sons-Hellwarth
Funeral Home
in Celina. Rev. Allan Brown and Paul Detwiler will officiate. Burial will be at Mercer Memory Gardens, Celina.
Calling Hours are from 10:00 A.M. until time of services at Noon on Wednesday, at the Funeral Home.
Preferred Memorials are to a hospice group of the donor's choice.
Condolences may be expressed at dickandsonshellwarthfh.com.
Additional obituaries for this date
Trinity FusonBarbara Schwenzer-MosesDorothy CarrRichard NasemanNellie Hamilton
Tuesday
62
23%
Tuesday Night
49
21%
Wednesday
58
69%
Wednesday Night
41
33%
Thursday
59
18%
Thursday Night
43
14%
Friday
64
10%
Friday Night
49
10%
Saturday
72
10%
Saturday Night
54
27%
3 Day
Extended
Photo Albums
Saturday, April 30
Coldwater vs Bath baseball
Friday, April 29
New Bremen Cardinal Invitational track meet
Friday, April 29
Parkway vs Wayne Trace softball
Thursday, April 28
Coldwater vs Versailles baseball
Thursday, April 28
Minster vs Fort Recovery softball
Online Video
Copyright
2016 Standard Printing Co. All Rights Reserved
The Standard Printing Co. publishes The Daily Standard, the daily newspaper covering the Grand Lake area in Mercer and Auglaize Counties.