
The numbers game
The Republican establishment is actively seeking a way to derail the front running Donald Trump from reaching the magic number of 1,237 delegates,
Paul Koring reports. If they succeed, it will send the party into uncharted political waters with few rules and fewer precedents to guide it

Donald Trump gives the crowd a thumbs up during a campaign rally in Harrisburg, Pa., last week. If Mr. Trump does not reach the required 1,237 delegates to win the Republican nomination outright, hell face an unpredictable contested convention inJuly.
Damon Winter/The New YorkTimes
Politics makes strangebedfellows.
Canadian-born Tea Party darling Ted Cruz, a right-wing Texan dogmatist despised by most of his Republicans fellows in the U.S. Senate, and Ohio Governor John Kasich, an establishment insider and mainstream moderate, have consummated a tryst of common cause, seeking to thwart Donald Trump from claiming the partys presidentialnomination.
Its a deliberate, desperate last-ditch effort to set up a contested Republican convention in Cleveland, where anti-Trump factions hope to snatch the nomination from thefront-runner.
Outraged that their lust to thwart him has overcome the gaping ideological gulf separating them, Mr. Trump denounced his lagging rivals as puppets of donors and special interests and yet more evidence of everything that is wrong in Washington and our politicalsystem.
Gov. John Kasich of Ohio, a Republican presidential hopeful, eats breakfast while speaking to reporters at the Penrose Diner in Philadelphia, April 25, 2016. Sen. Ted Cruz and Kasich have agreed to coordinate in future primary contests in a last-ditch effort to deny Donald Trump the nomination, with each candidate standing aside in certain states amid growing concerns that Trump cannot otherwise be stopped. (Mark Makela/The New YorkTimes)
Mark Makela/The New YorkTimes
Mr. Cruz and Mr. Kasich, urged on by the growing Stop Trump movement, agreed to divvy up some of the remaining states in the primary race, backing whichever one is more likely to damage Mr. Trump as they seek to deny him the 1,237 delegates he needs to win the nominationoutright.
In one of his most honest campaign statements, the Donald, who for months has defied political convention, party insiders and a legion of pundits with a self-financed, blunt-speaking, often outrageous campaign that has driven more than a dozen rivals into oblivion, accused Mr. Cruz and Mr. Kasich of collusion, noting that sort of betrayal of principle was illegal inbusiness.
It is sad that two grown politicians have to collude against one person who has only been a politician for 10 months in order to try and stop that person from getting the Republican nomination, Mr. Trumpsaid.
[Trump] is winning a plurality of votes, and he has a plurality of delegates. And under the rules and under the concept of this country, a majority rules oneverything.
Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus
Neither Mr. Cruz, who trails Mr. Trump by nearly 300 delegates and is widely expected to fall further behind Tuesday as five more eastern states hold Republican primaries, nor Mr. Kasich, who has only won his home state, have even the remotest chance of catching the front-runner by June 7, when California closes out the primaryseason.
Yet, both are hanging on in a naked and, now joint, plan to force the convention past the first ballot, for which delegates are bound to back the candidate that a majority of Republican voters picked. The thwart-Trump scenario envisions delegates defecting after the firstballot.
Many in the Republican establishment, aware that polls show Mr. Trump losing massively to any Democratic opponent, are hoping a contested, multiballot convention in July will pick a more-electable compromisecandidate.
Understandably, that scenario infuriates Mr. Trump, who has won the most states, the most votes and will go to Cleveland with a commanding lead. Darkly, he has warned of the risk of riots if the convention steals the nomination from him. The system is rigged, its crooked, he says. And polls back him, finding a majority of Republicans believe the candidate with the most votes should become thenominee.
They gotta do something about it. The Republican National Committee better get going because Ill tell you what, youre gonna have a rough time at that convention in July, Mr. Trumpsaid.
But the system isnt rigged
just complex, almost Byzantine
and Mr. Trump has been routinely outfoxed by the better ground game of rivals, such as Mr. Cruz, who have loyalists among delegates pledged to Mr. Trump. As for the rules, the partys convention in Cleveland is a self-governing entity. It can
and almost certainly will
change or introduce new rules before any rounds ofvoting.
U.S. Republican presidential candidate Ted Cruz (R-TX) speaks with the media at a campaign event at Zaharakos Ice Cream Shop in Columbus, Indiana, U.S., April 25,2016.
Aaron P.Bernstein/REUTERS
Neither Mr. Trumps rivals nor the partys establishment accept his assertion that hes being unfairlytreated.
Donald, it aint stealing when the voters vote against you
it is the voters reclaiming this country and reclaiming sanity, said Mr. Cruz, who openly predicts a contested convention and hopes that the strong antipathy to Mr. Trump among a majority of Republicans makes him the most likelyalternative.
Meanwhile, Republican National Committee chairman Reince Priebus has become increasingly testy over Mr. Trumps accusations. If Donald Trump, if he was winning the majority of votes, hed likely have the majority of delegates, Mr. Priebus said. But thats not actually whats happening. Hes winning a plurality of votes, and he has a plurality of delegates. And under the rules and under the concept of this country, a majority rules oneverything.
The delegate math sofar
Of the 1,798 delegates committed, 845, or 47% are for trump
Of the 674 delegates remaining, Trump needs 392, or 58%, to win
Each state has its own method of selecting delegates and its own rules for binding them to a particular candidate. For instance, New York States method of divvying up the states 95 delegates gave all 14 statewide delegates to Mr. Trump because he won more than 50 per cent of the overall vote. He also picked up 75 additional delegates for wining most of the states 27 congressional districts. Other states have simple winner-take-all rules. Some, such as Colorado, have conventions with no voting. Others are purely proportional. Votes dont count, delegatescount.
So far, Mr. Trump has won 47 per cent of the pledged delegates. To reach 1,237 before the convention, he needs to win 58 per cent of delegates not yet assigned in states still to holdprimaries.
That includes the biggest prize of all, California, where 172 delegates
more than 40 per cent of the 392 delegates Mr. Trump still needs
are at stake. Only 10 are awarded to the winner of the state, three go to party officials and the remainder are divvied up based on the winner of each of 53 congressional districts. Along with six other states voting on June 7, the delegate race may, for the first time in decades, be decided by the last tovote.
The first rule of contested conventions is there are norules
FIRST ROUND
In the first vote, at least 5 per cent of the total 2,472 Republican delegates are unbound
meaning they can vote as they please instead of according to the primary/caucus result of the voting district they represent.
1,237 to clinch nomination
Unbound:
5%
Bound to a candidate:
95%
No candidate gets 1,237 delegates Moves on to second vote
SECOND ROUND
A second vote is held, this time with a much larger proportion of unbound delegates.
1,237 to clinch nomination
Unbound:
57%
Bound to a candidate:
43%
No candidate gets 1,237 delegates Moves on to second vote
THIRD ROUND AND SO ON
This process continues, with more delegates becoming unbound with each new vote, until a candidate gets a majority and wins the party nomination to run for the presidency.
source: reuters
Equally complex are state rules for binding delegates. A few delegates are entirely unbound, meaning they can vote for whichever candidate they like. Most are required by their state to vote for a designated candidate for the first round of convention balloting. Some states, such as Texas, require two rounds of loyalty. Florida requires three. So, a candidate who doesnt win on the first round is in unchartedwaters.
And even delegates pledged to a particular candidate arent required to vote in accordance with that candidates preferences on rule revisions. So a Trump-designated delegate who doesnt like the man or believes he will wreck the partys chances of winning the presidency might vote for a rule against Mr. Trumps interest even while being bound to vote for him on the first ballot. The rules committee is composed ofdelegates.
One rule that will attract early attention is 40(b)
created four years ago to keep libertarian Ron Paul from becoming a nominee by requiring that candidates win at least eight states to be eligible. This year, those seeking alternatives to Mr. Trump and Mr. Cruz will need that ruleremoved.
Other rule changes that could be considered, given the prospect of a chaotic and contested convention, include whether delegates will vote on secret ballots after the largely orchestrated firstround.
History is nohelp
Mr. Trump was a diaper-clad, two-year-old toddler the last time Republicans fought a multiround battle over picking their presidentialnominee.
That was 1948 and it took three ballots to confirm New York Governor Thomas Dewey, the Republican front-runner, as the partys presidential nominee. He went on to lose to President Harry Truman in a cliffhanger of anelection.
In this June 23, 1948, file photo, delegates with posters and state signs crowd down the center aisle at Convention Hall in Philadelphia during a demonstration for Gov. Thomas E. Dewey after his name was placed in nomination during the Republican National Convention. Dewey won the Republican presidential nomination on the third ballot of a contested convention in Philadelphia. Months later, he lost the general election to Democratic incumbent Harry S.Truman.
AP Photo
To find a convention even remotely resembling whats planned by the anti-Trump forces in Cleveland in July requires looking back nearly a century into an entirely different era of U.S.politics.
The last multiballot contested convention where an underdog won and Republicans eventually picked someone other than the front-runner as its presidential standard-bearer was in 1920, when it took 10 rounds of balloting to nominate Warren Harding, who started in fifth place with the scant support of only 6 per cent of thedelegates.
That pre-TV convention in Chicago was all-white and all-male, in an era before primaries, when party bosses ruled and secret deals in smoke-filled rooms were the norm. Harry Daugherty, who was Mr. Hardings campaign manager, was quoted as saying: I dont expect Senator Harding to be nominated on the first, second or third ballots, but I think we can afford to take chances that about 11 minutes after two, Friday morning of the convention, when 15 or 12 weary men are sitting around a table, someone will say: Who will wenominate?
A grateful Mr. Harding, who won the presidential election that fall, appointed Mr. Daugherty as the countrysAttorney-General.
Five scenarios of contestedconvention
Theres a bewildering array of possible outcomes in the most unpredictable and surprising Republican race in decades. Instead of the party, after eight years of a Democratic president, looking to a mainstream candidate, an unwieldy field of 17 hopefuls created a chaotic and bitterly acrimonious race and the real possibility of a contestedconvention.
Among the possible scenarios, the following five illustrate the spectrum of outcomes, albeit in no particularorder:
1. Mr. Trump wins by amassing the 1,237 delegates before the convention or persuades a handful of uncommitted delegates to get him over the top on the firstballot.
2. Mr. Trump falls short of a majority on the first ballot and his vote total declines in the second (and perhaps subsequent) ballots as delegates are released from their binding obligations. Mr. Cruz, who came second on the first ballot, holds his loyal supporters and gains sufficient Trump defectors to win on the second or thirdballot.
3. The convention is deadlocked after multiple ballots with neither Mr. Cruz nor Mr. Trump able to reach 1,237 and the two rivals
who have viciously attacked each other for months, including Mr. Trump posting unflattering pictures of Mr. Cruzs wife and claiming the Canadian-born right-winger is constitutionally barred from being president
agree to join as presidential and vice-presidential candidates on a singleticket.
4. A deadlocked convention turns to Mr. Kasich as the compromise candidate
much as Mr. Harding won in 1920. Suggestions that the convention look beyond declared candidates to draft the well-liked and widely respected House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan have been unequivocally rejected by Mr. Ryan, who may have his eye on2020.
5. Mr. Trump, thwarted from winning the Republican nomination despite amassing the plurality of the votes during the primaries, makes good on his threat to run as an independent if the party doesnt treat him fairly. That option seems doomed if only because several key states
including Texas and Florida
have filing deadlines for write-in candidates before the Republican conventionends.

