0 of 3 Premium Clicks used this month
SUBSCRIBE
Print + Online Subscriber Activation|
Register
x
Username *
(usually your email address)
Password *
Forgot Password | Need an Account?
e-edition
|
subscribe
|
newsletter
|
advertise
|
Subscriber Services
Classifieds
Jobs
Autos
Real Estate
Tue, May 3, 2016
NEWS NOW
Kretschmar named new Somersworth police chief
...
Farmington school board not interested in paying Trump bill
...
Rochester woman charged with burglary
...
Kretschmar named new Somersworth police chief
...
Farmington school board not interested in paying Trump bill
...
Rochester woman charged with burglary
...
Baby dies in crash on Maine Turnpike in Wells
fosters.com
Writer
Posted May. 3, 2016 at 7:36 AM
Updated at 7:36 AM
Posted May. 3, 2016 at 7:36 AM
WELLS, Maine
State Police say an 11-month-old baby died, and four other people, including the baby's mother, were injured in a one-car crash on the Maine Turnpike in Wells Monday afternoon.Maine State Police spokesman Stephen McCausland, said the crash took place in heavy rain just before 4 p.m. Monday when the driver lost control of the car causing it to strike guardrails and come to a rest along the tree line beside the highway. Reece Degen, of Sanford, an 11-month-old, was in a child safety seat in the back of the vehicle and suffered fatal head injuries, McCausland said. She died shortly after arrival at York Hospital, he said.The baby's mother, 21-year-old Brianna Degen, was in the front passenger seat of the car. She was taken to Maine Medical Center in Portland with multiple injuries. Also taken to Maine Medical Center were the driver, Alyssa Cray, 22, of Sanford, and her two children, 4-month-old Connor Cray and 3-year-old Alexandria Cray. Both children suffered minor injuries, McCausland said, and the baby was in a child safety seat while the 3-year-old was wearing a seat belt.One of the three southbound lanes of the Maine Turnpike were closed to traffic while a team of troopers investigated the crash.McCausland said Troopers continue to investigate the cause of the crash.
fosters.com
Writer
Posted May. 3, 2016 at 7:36 AM
Comments are currently unavailable on this article
STAY INFORMED
Email NewsLetter
Sign Up Today
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Seacoast Directory
Featured Businesses
Loading...
Business Name
addressLocation, ST | website.com
Find Dover Attractions
Bars
Restaurants
Beauty Salons
Entertainment
Doctors
Medical Specialists
Contractors
Education
Lawn Services
Lawyers
Shopping
Travel
Tanning
Used Cars
Wedding Services
Add your business here +
Events Calendar
Connect with fosters.com
Facebook
Twitter
RSS
Back to top
Photos
Events
Propel Marketing
Seacoastonline.com
SeacoastCareers.com
SeacoastRealEstate.com
SeacoastClassifiedAds.com
Blogs
Mobile Site
Stay Informed
Email newsletter
Sign Up Today
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
Copyright 2016 Local Media Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved.Privacy Policy|Terms of Service|Local Media Group Publications
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted. fosters.com | 150 Venture Dr., Dover, NH 03820