POLITICO
Magazine
Magazine Home
Today's Cover
Opinion
Latest Stories
Weekly Email Signups
What Works
2016 Election
Delegate Tracker
Presidential Results
Senate Results
House Results
Governor Results
2016 Election Schedule
Policy
Agriculture
Cybersecurity
Defense
Education
eHealth
Energy & Environment
Finance & Tax
Health Care
Labor & Employment
Technology
Trade
Transportation & Infrastructure
PRO
Already a Pro?
Why Go Pro?
Latest 50
50
50 New
05/03/16 08:40 AM EDT
TIME RUNNING OUT FOR HILL ON PUERTO RICO
Pelosis own Puerto Rico conundrum
OBAMA TAKES GARLAND PLEA TO REPORTERS FROM SENATE BATTLEGROUND STATES, WITH STRINGS
Dummy politicians
A BUSY HILL DEPARTURE LOUNGE.
Time is running out for Congress to act on Puerto Rico's debt problems.
05/03/16 08:30 AM EDT
U.S. service member killed in Iraq
By Jeremy Herb
Carter, Dunford at U.S. European change of command
Baghdad rejects the Biden treatment
05/03/16 08:00 AM EDT
Ted's last stand
By Ben White
Froman, Obama on TPP
Bernie hopes to hold on
Big banks not eager to sue over fiduciary rule
05/03/16 07:55 AM EDT
CUOMOs story -- DE BLASIOs gradual response -- HUDSON YARDS $200M sculpture
HUDSON YARDS $200M sculpture
05/03/16 07:36 AM EDT
Trump accuses Cruz's father of helping JFK's assassin
By Nolan D. McCaskill
It's a disgrace that Ted Cruz's father can use the pulpit to court evangelicals for his son, Donald Trump said Tuesday.
05/03/16 07:30 AM EDT
APRIL CHICAGO crime numbers taper -- AIRBNB makes neighborhood appeal -- GANNETT pushing TRIB on takeover
AIRBNB makes neighborhood appeal
05/03/16 07:12 AM EDT
U.S. service member killed in Iraq
By Connor OBrien and Austin Wright
The U.S.-led coalition against the Islamic State said the death was the result of enemy fire.
05/03/16 07:05 AM EDT
AC debt default delayed -- CHRISTIE orders mandatory lead testing -- PRINCETON residents want university to pay up
CHRISTIE orders mandatory lead testing
05/03/16 07:00 AM EDT
SJC hears HERNANDEZ arguments today -- TRANS BILL progress hailed -- Gunsmoke and RATTLESNAKE ISLAND
TRANS BILL progress hailed
05/03/16 06:52 AM EDT
Poll: Trump up to 56 percent nationally
By Nolan D. McCaskill
Donald Trump tops the 50-percent threshold in a national NBC News|SurveyMonkey poll released Tuesday.
05/03/16 06:46 AM EDT
Trump dings America's Mideast allies: They aren't great fighters
By Nolan D. McCaskill
American allies in the Middle East haven't proven themselves to be great fighters against the Islamic State, Donald Trump said Monday.
05/03/16 06:25 AM EDT
HOOSIER NOMINEE? T-Day: Indiana romp will seal the deal
HOW TRUMP plans to court women -- REINCE PRIEBUS headlines Playbook Breakfast on FRIDAY -- BDAY: Willie Geist, Ben Ginsberg
De Blasio plans a crisis response, without the sense of crisis
By Dana Rubinstein
Letter From Indiana
05/03/16 05:25 AM EDT
How Ted Cruz Got Indiana Wrong
By Adam Wren
The only problem with Cruzs socially conservative message? The voters he has to win over on Tuesday dont like it.
2016
05/03/16 05:24 AM EDT
Who's winning Indiana? It's anybody's guess
By Steven Shepard
Donald Trump has a double-digit lead in Indiana. Possibly.
2016
05/03/16 05:23 AM EDT
Stop Trump to Cruz: Win Indiana, or else
By Shane Goldmacher
If Cruz loses Indiana, movement leaders fear their funders will abandon the cause.
05/03/16 05:22 AM EDT
How Bernie changed Hillary
By Annie Karni
Sanders has left a lasting imprint on Clintons candidacy, even if few in her camp are willing to admit it.
Updated 05/03/16 12:09 AM EDT
Kefauver crime committee launched, May 3, 1950
By Andrew Glass
On this day in 1950, the Senate established a five-member Special Committee to Investigate Organized Crime in Interstate Commerce.
Europes quiet crisis: Missing migrant children
By Alberto Mucci and Giulia Paravicini
The system is failing the thousands of unaccompanied children crossing onto the Continent.
Winning London 'street to street, synagogue to mosque'
By TOM MCTAGUE
Labour's Sadiq Khan is likely to be the new mayor of London, despite Tory attempts to make his religion an issue.
Security concerns flare up over Greek asylum centers
By Laurens Cerulus
EU agency boosts safety measures in Lesbos after riots last week.
Polish leader warns critics: Were not changing, get used to it
By Jan Cienski
Jarosaw Kaczyski shows no sign of giving way in fight with highest court.
Franois Hollandes labor reform runs into new trouble
By Nicholas Vinocur
Government looks for a majority to pass bill as violence flares.
05/02/16 10:08 PM EDT
In Indiana, Cruz delivers urgent final pitch
By Katie Glueck
Right now the entire the eyes of the nation are on Indiana.
2016
05/02/16 10:06 PM EDT
Trump closes out Indiana by looking past it
By Ben Schreckinger
Accompanied by sports heroes, he pivots to Hillary Clinton.
05/02/16 09:13 PM EDT
Obama takes Garland plea to Senate battleground states
By Hanna Trudo
"He may be the most qualified nominee that we've seen before the Senate for a Supreme Court seat.
05/02/16 08:20 PM EDT
Carly Fiorina falls at Cruz event
Washington And The World
05/02/16 08:19 PM EDT
Why America Needs Iran in Iraq
By Zalmay Khalilzad
The internecine fighting among Shias requires a deal with Tehran and Ayatollah Sistani.
05/02/16 08:06 PM EDT
Clinton cleans up coal comments
By Nolan D. McCaskill
I do feel a little bit sad and sorry that I gave folks the reason and the excuse to be so upset with me."
05/02/16 07:47 PM EDT
Hillary Clinton apologizes for "misstatement" about coal miners
2016
05/02/16 07:20 PM EDT
Sanders seeks to end his free fall
By Daniel Strauss
A win in Indiana would be a break from a week of bad headlines.
05/02/16 07:13 PM EDT
Donald Trump: Even I would have helped Carly Fiorina up
05/02/16 07:09 PM EDT
Time running out as Puerto Rico's default picks up steam
By Rachael Bade and Colin Wilhelm
Even a hint of the politically radioactive term "bailout" has slowed the measure's progress.
05/02/16 06:50 PM EDT
Strategists play blame game over Trump's rise
By Nolan D. McCaskill
Republican and Democratic strategists marvel at the phenomenon.
white house
05/02/16 06:11 PM EDT
Bidens Iraq hopes crash with reality
By Nahal Toosi
The White House is on the defensive after political divisions explode following Biden's trip to the region.
05/02/16 06:03 PM EDT
Indiana votes
By Henry C. Jackson
Cruzs televised hecklers
Clintons big April
5 things you need to know
Updated 05/02/16 05:49 PM EDT
Indiana Internet searches favor issues for Cruz, horse race for Trump
By Hadas Gold
More people are likely to be searching for issue and policy related questions about Cruz's campaign than Trump's, according to a new survey of Internet...
2016
05/02/16 05:47 PM EDT
Trump pushes Cruz to the brink
By Patrick Reis
Indiana is one of the Texas senators last chances to stop Trump, but the polls suggest he's heading for a loss.
05/02/16 05:31 PM EDT
Kevin Madden on whether the media is to blame for Trump ascendance
05/02/16 05:27 PM EDT
POLITICO's State of the Race Event
Updated 05/02/16 05:26 PM EDT
Twitter suit over surveillance stats battered, but not dead
By Josh Gerstein
The tech firm did win a chance to attempt to reformulate its case.
05/02/16 05:23 PM EDT
Trump: Even I would have helped Fiorina up
By Nolan D. McCaskill
Ted Cruz continued talking to supporters as his wife helped Carly Fiorina to her feet.
05/02/16 05:01 PM EDT
Poll: Americans overwhelmingly believe Trump, Clinton will win their primaries
By Nolan D. McCaskill
Republicans are split on whether the party will be able to unite.
Updated 05/02/16 04:12 PM EDT
Hill Democrats denied alcohol when license lapsed
By Rachael Bade and Anna Palmer
The National Democratic Club had to shutter its bar last Friday after its liquor license expired for several hours.
05/02/16 03:32 PM EDT
Hillary Clinton hints at job for Bill in White House
By Nick Gass
"Ive told my husband hes got to come out of retirement and be in charge of this, because you know, hes got more ideas a minute than anybody I know."...
05/02/16 03:10 PM EDT
Cruz tangles with Trump supporter
By Nick Gass
What do you like about Donald?" Cruz asked, to which the man replied, "Everything."
05/02/16 02:23 PM EDT
Sanders laughs with supporter who tells billionaire class to 'f--- off'
Updated 05/02/16 02:22 PM EDT
White House calls Larry Wilmore's performance 'provocative'
By Nolan D. McCaskill
White House press secretary Josh Earnest told reporters Monday the president appreciated the spirit of Mr. Wilmores expressions.
05/02/16 02:00 PM EDT
Dining for dollars
By Isaac Arnsdorf
Pro-hedge fund ads notch $1.8M
Ketchum's Levinson to PhRMA
05/02/16 01:39 PM EDT
New Hampshire GOP cancels vote on blocking Trump allies from convention posts
By Shane Goldmacher
The New Hampshire Republican Party, under pressure from Donald Trumps supporters, has canceled a controversial planned vote on a slate of delegate committee...
You're All Caught Up
We're working on more stories right now
Check out today's hot topics
Hillary Clinton
Jeb Bush
Bernie Sanders
Mitch McConnell
Elizabeth Warren
John Boehner
Rand Paul
Harry Reid
Search
Search
Login
Account Details
Log In
Log Out
U.S. Edition
Europe Edition
POLITICO Florida
POLITICO New Jersey
POLITICO New York
POLITICO Media
Menu
Sections
Congress
White House
Magazine
The Agenda
Latest Election Results
2016 Elections
Events
Morning Money Breakfast
Outside In
Playbook Live
Solving for Y
See All Events >>
Multimedia
All Video
Podcasts
Driving the Day
The Debrief
Playback
Blogs & Columns
Roger Simon
On Media
Josh Gerstein
The Gavel
Rich Lowry
Series
What Works
Women Rule
POLITICO Caucus
Connect With Us
THE LATEST NEWS
In Indiana, Cruz delivers urgent final pitch
Full Updates
Hours until polls close
0
0
:
0
0
:
0
0
Coming tonight
Results from the Indiana primaries
Click here
Delegate counter
Trump closes out Indiana by looking past it
By Ben Schreckinger
Sanders seeks to end his free fall
By Daniel Strauss
How Ted Cruz Got Indiana Wrong
By Adam Wren
How Bernie changed Hillary
By Annie Karni
Who's winning Indiana? It's anybody's guess
By Steven Shepard
Stop Trump to Cruz: Win Indiana, or else
By Shane Goldmacher
Obama roasts the media, RNC and, of course, Trump at annual dinner
Obama's top 10 jokes at the correspondents' dinner
Inside Cruzs camp, confidence crumbles
Trump flops in Arizona delegate fight
The Data Behind Trumps Twitter Takeover
Politico
Illinois Playbook
Natasha Koreckis must-read rundown of political news in the Land of Lincoln
Subscribe
Shares
Facebook
Twitter
Google +
Email
Comment
Print
APRIL CHICAGO crime numbers taper -- AIRBNB makes neighborhood appeal -- GANNETT pushing TRIB on takeover
05/03/16 07:30 AM EDT
By Natasha Korecki (nkorecki@politico.com; @natashakorecki) with Manuela Tobias (mtobias@politico.com; @manuelatobiasm)
Good Tuesday morning, Illinois. There's finally a reprieve of sorts with Chicago crime numbers in April. There was one more murder this April than in 2015 but the skyrocketing murder surge we saw in January and February has considerably slowed. Story Continued Below
In Springfield, lawmakers are back today and working groups we told you about on Monday are still hashing out budget negotiations. Gov. Bruce Rauner on Monday said he backed the rank-and-file talks and hoped for a "grand bargain" but wouldn't say what kinds of reforms, if any, had to be part of it. More on all of that below.
Finally, Monday night, a familiar restaurant was singled out in the prestigious James Beard awards, held in Chicago. Let's start there:
ALINEA SNAGS BEST RESTAURANT HONOR -- Los Angeles Chef, Chicago's Alinea Win Big at Beard Awards, ABC News: Chef Suzanne Goin took home the outstanding chef award Monday night at the James Beard Awards, and Chicago mainstay Alinea won the outstanding restaurant honor at a ceremony many consider the Academy Awards of the culinary world. It's the first outstanding restaurant win for Alinea. Its chef, Grant Achatz, won the outstanding chef award in 2008 and has earned other honors from the Beard Foundation over the years but never the top prize. Achatz's ultramodern cooking style has come to define the molecular gastronomy movement. He thanked his staff during the awards Monday night at Chicago's Lyric Opera for trusting him, having courage and taking the risk to innovate." http://abcn.ws/1UuasgF
THE REASON YOUVE NEVER BEEN THERE -- The cost of dinner for two at Alinea is $702. But! That includes gratuity. http://bit.ly/1pXvZSf
RISE IN CITY MURDERS SLOWS -- Chicagos soaring murder count slows in April, by Chicago Sun-Times' Mitch Dudek: "Homicides in April increased only 3 percent compared with April of last year, an anything-but-perfect but still welcome stat considering the sharp uptick in murders recorded in the first three months of 2016, including a 126 percent jump in February. There were 36 murders this April, one more murder than in April 2015, the Chicago Police Department said Sunday. Homicides ballooned in January and have tapered since. The progress was highlighted by the police department, but this years murder stats still outpace last years numbers. http://bit.ly/1pXgQ37
FIRST LOOK: Airbnb isnt happy with Mayor Emanuels proposal to add a surcharge onto its rentals to help the homeless, so it went into the field and asked 700 registered Chicago voters about it. The results shows people overwhelmingly supported Airbnb, a home vacation rental business, and wanted an even playing field between the Airbnb and hotels. A summary of the poll provided to POLITICO shows: voters do not want a tax hike on Airbnb homeshares. Voters overwhelmingly oppose taxing Airbnb rooms at a higher rate than hotel rooms, making Airbnb guests pay an additional 2% surcharge (15% support / 76% oppose). We were only provided a summary, however, so its tough to really evaluate the results without knowing which questions were asked and how they were asked.
Neighborhood strength: The polling summary does make clear the business strategy, which is similar to Uber: pit the stodgy old industry against innovation. While Uber launched an ad campaign focusing on its service in the citys neighborhoods, Airbnb seems to be focusing there too, arguing it lets homeowners in neighborhoods make an extra buck instead of just the wealthy hotel owners downtown. Summary: http://bit.ly/21rMqno
ONE ALDERMANS VIEW: AIRBNB A THREAT TO NEIGHBORHOODS: by Sun-Times Mark Brown: http://bit.ly/1pXzgks
Welcome to the POLITICO Illinois Playbook. Have a tip, event, announcement, endorsement? Send to nkorecki@politico.com or @natashakorecki
RAHM TO STATE: F is YOU -- Emanuel: Focus on State Lawmakers for Education Funding, by WLS News' Bill Cameron: The Chicago Teachers Union is leaning against going on strike later this month, and Mayor Rahm Emanuel is glad to hear it. Emanuel says he welcomes talk of no strike because he says we should instead be talking about finishing the year and building on the success of teachers and students. 'And lets as leaders use our time to convince the State of Illinois to stop [getting] an F when it comes to funding education and not allow them to get another F this year when it comes to funding education for poor kids,' Emanuel said. http://bit.ly/1VHsk97
** A Message from Nuclear Matters: Providing 90 percent of Illinois carbon-free electricity, nuclear energy plants play a vital role in achieving our clean-energy and carbon-reduction goals. Illinois nuclear energy fleet supports approximately 28,000 direct and indirect jobs and contributes nearly $9 billion to the state's economy. Learn more at NuclearMatters.com. **
DISPARAGING DOOBIES -- Medical marijuana board rips Rauner's rejections, by Chicago Tribune's Celeste Bott: Republican Gov. Bruce Rauner came under fire Monday as the doctors, nurses and patients on a state panel that recommends whether to expand Illinois' medical marijuana test program complained their suggestions are routinely ignored. The Medical Marijuana Advisory Board suggested that 10 previously recommended ailments receive approval, as well two new ones: Type 1 diabetes and panic disorder. As some at a hearing celebrated the diabetes recommendation, board member and pediatrician Dr. Nestor Ramirez cautioned the crowd to 'wait for what the governor says. http://trib.in/1VHsrBF
TRUMP SCORES WITH HELP OF CHICAGO INSIDERS-- WATCHDOGS: The Donald & the Democrat; Burke saved Trump $11.7M, by Chicago Sun-Times Tim Novak and Chris Fusco: A law firm headed by Ald. Edward M. Burke, one of Chicagos most powerful Democrats, has helped Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump and investors in his luxury downtown hotel cut their property taxes by 39 percent over seven years, saving them $11.7 million, a Chicago Sun-Times analysis has found. Burke
one of 47 Chicago aldermen who voted to approve development of Trump International Hotel & Tower in 2002
won reductions in six of the seven years for the hotel, retail and other commercial space in the skyscraper, records show. http://bit.ly/1VHNDr2
WHEN ALL ELSE FAILS, GET OUT OF THE WAY -- As Rauner Hunts For A Grand Bargain, He's Leaving The Actual Bargaining To Others, by WUIS Amanda Vinicky: As the state budget impasse has entered an eleventh month, Illinois Governor Bruce Rauner says he's hopeful a grand bargain can be worked out by the end of May; but he's leaving the bargaining to others
Rauner says he's not directly involved in talks. But he's the governor. When asked whether he should be, Rauner answered: At various points in the past I have been ... and I don't think the leaders in the legislature are directly involved either ... This is a grass roots effort from members of the General Assembly. And it's just the right thing. I think they're taking the bull by the horns. http://bit.ly/1NiOagt
FOX: "The Governor says he's confident that there could be a deal by the end of session.But he avoided questions Monday on what reforms he needs to have as part of a grand bargain or how high he'd be willing to raise taxes." http://bit.ly/1Z5JMBW
WHO FOLLOWS CHIEF ILLINIWEK? -- Chancellor OKs mascot search, by The News Gazette's Julie Wurth: Nine years after the retirement of Chief Illiniwek, the University of Illinois is launching a process to choose a 'first-ever' athletic mascot. Interim Chancellor Barbara Wilson announced her decision at the campus Academic Senate meeting on Monday. Wilson endorsed the recommendation from an Illinois Student Senate ad hoc committee that recently urged the campus to move forward with a mascot. She met with the group on Friday. http://bit.ly/1VHsv4c
STRIKE-ENDING DEAL AT U OF I -- Update: Strike ends, Non-Tenure Faculty Coalition, University administration reach tentative contract agreement, by Daily Illini's Megan Jones and Vivienne Henning: Classes will resume as normal for the final three days of classes this semester. The Non-Tenure Faculty Coalition Local 6546 voted Sunday evening to end the strike and return to work as normal. University administration and the NTFC released a joint statement Saturday evening, stating a tentative five-year contract was agreed upon. This is the first contract for the union after three rounds of labor actions and the union will hold a vote to ratify and accept the contract on Thursday, May 5. http://bit.ly/1pXglGg
HASTERT NOW FAMOUS FOR SOMETHING ELSE -- National Wrestling Hall of Fame revokes Hasterts awards, by The Associated Press: "The National Wrestling Hall of Fame said Monday that it has revoked all honors for Dennis Hastert after the former House speaker was accused of sexually abusing teenagers decades ago. The Oklahoma-based organization said its Board of Governors approved the revocation after its ethics committee found that Hastert's actions were detrimental to the ideals and objectives of the Wrestling Hall of Fame. Executive Director Lee Roy Smith said the organization decided to wait for the outcome of Hastert's criminal case before taking any action. 'In the 40 years since it was founded, the National Wrestling Hall of Fame has never had to remove an individual who had received one of its highest awards,' Smith said in a statement Monday. http://bit.ly/1pXgr0N
SIU ANGER OVER RACIST VIDEO -- Protests target racism, debt at Southern Illinois University, by The Associated Press: Several hundred Southern Illinois University protesters have rallied against student debt and racism following recent incidents including an anonymous video calling for violence against black students. The Monday march in Carbondale was conceived as a one-day strike to call attention to economic issues. The protest broadened after the video's online release via YouTube drew condemnation from university leaders one week ago. YouTube later removed it for violating the company's policies on hate speech. University and Carbondale police reported no arrests by Monday afternoon as participants chanted in a courtyard in the center of campus. http://bit.ly/1pXgyJB
FREE TO PROTEST, JUST DONT BE SEEN OR HEARD-- Screens blocking I-355 protesters prompt free-speech debate, by Daily Herald's Marni Pyke: One of the true signs of spring is the budding of protesters on the Great Western Trail overpass on I-355 and traffic jams when drivers slow down to gape. But this year it's different. Dark screening now partially obscures the view of Impeach Obama signs waved by demonstrators. Some resourceful activists rigged up sign extensions that jutted out above the screening last week when I drove by. But it wasn't quite the same. If there were any fist-pumping or thumbs-up gestures, they were hard to see at 40 mph. http://bit.ly/1pXgBoN
FORCING TAKEOVER TALKS AT TRIB -- Gannett tells Tribune shareholders not to vote for board, by The Associated Press: "Gannett is escalating its pursuit of buy rival newspaper company Tribune, telling shareholders of Tribune not to vote for board members up for election in June. Gannett, the publisher of USA Today and other newspapers, said Monday that withholding a vote at Tribunes annual meeting next month will send a message to the management team that it needs to engage in takeover talks. A representative for Tribune did not immediately respond to a request for comment Monday morning. http://bit.ly/1pXgCsQ
TRIB EDIT BOARDS REQUEST FOR BILL BRADY -- The Illinois GOP senator holding the cards, Chicago Tribune Editorial board: http://trib.in/1VHGoiN
LEGAL AID CLINICS TAKE A HIT -- Feeling the pinch," by Chicago Daily Law Bulletin's David Thomas: Legal aid clinics have, for the most part, managed to stay afloat as other social services begin to sink after nearly a full year without a state budget. Directors at these clinics have acknowledged a perverse fact about their continued survival: Because they were getting so little money in the first place, losing out on that money from the state wasnt going to automatically shut down their clinics. But the cracks are starting to show for some legal aid clinics, and some indicated they will have to either lay off workers or cut back on services if their funding situation doesnt improve." http://bit.ly/1VHsEVq
RAHM PRETENDS STRIKE ALREADY AVERTED -- Emanuel pleased CTU strike unlikely this school year, by Chicago Sun-Times Fran Spielman and Lauren FitzPatrick: "Although the Chicago Teachers Union has not yet made it official, Mayor Rahm Emanuel acted as if it was a fait accompli that the threat of Chicagos second teachers strike in four years had been lifted
at least until fall. 'The good news is, they agreed not to strike.'
the mayor said Monday. Sharkey, the CTUs vice president, told the Sun-Times that teachers are leaning away from going out on strike later this month, when the law first allows them. The House of Delegates, the unions body authorized to set a strike date, will meet Wednesday to discuss possible plans, but Sharkey and other CTU members have said that union members worry about losing health insurance and their last paychecks of the year before summer. http://bit.ly/1pXh1LZ
MAYOR OFFERS ZOPP NEW HOME -- Sneed exclusive: Emanuel picks Zopp to be a deputy mayor," by Chicago Sun-Times' Michael Sneed: Mayor Rahm Emanuel has offered a slice of the power pie to former Urban League powerhouse Andrea Zopp, a highly respected Chicago attorney who lost her Democratic primary bid for the U.S. Senate to Tammy Duckworth. Sneed has learned Emanuel asked Zopp, who has strong ties to Chicagos African-American political and fiscal power players, to become Chicagos deputy mayor in charge of overseeing major city projects. http://bit.ly/1pXh7TQ
BOLD BET IN WEST LOOP -- Another office tower to rise in West Loop, by Crains Ryan Ori: A group of local developers is breaking ground on a 20-story office building in the West Loop without securing any tenants in advance, a bold bet on the continued strength of the downtown office market. A venture that includes Rosemont-based White Oak Realty Partners and Chicago-based CA Ventures said by June it will start constructing the 432,000-square-foot tower next to Old St. Patrick's Church. Unlike other developers that lease some of a building's space in advance, the venture is developing the tower on speculation, or spec, confident that tenants will come after construction is underway." http://bit.ly/1pXhhK
BUYING TIME ON LUCAS -- City requests delay in Lucas Museum court case, Chicago Tribune: The city of Chicago and the Chicago Park District filed a motion Monday requesting a 30-day stay in the court proceedings related to the original Lucas Museum proposal south of Soldier Field, saying the delay will allow time for continued exploration of the alternate McCormick Place site. Friends of the Parks, the preservation group which filed a lawsuit to block the museum on the lakefront, agreed to the delay. A judge will consider the request next week. http://trib.in/23kBGGN
CITY COUNCIL RUNS THE METER -- Aldermen winning in taxi war with ride-booking companies, by Crains Greg Hinz: The renewed City Council fight over whether to require ride-booking companies like Uber and Lyft to use only drivers with a chauffeur's license is sparking a campaign cash windfall for Chicago aldermen and some of their pet causes. Most obvious is the giving by the Illinois Transportation Trade Association PAC, which represents traditional taxi companies, but both sides are opening their wallets. Since a measure by Ald. Anthony Beale, 9th, and other members of the City Council's progressive caucus to require such a license, was introduced last month, ITTA has donated at least $23,000 to a total of 18 aldermen. Most got $1,000 each, but Beale received $5,000. http://bit.ly/1pXhjlS
ENGLEWOODS SHOT AT THE WHITE HOUSE -- Englewood Chess Champs Could Meet President Obama, by DNAinfo's Andrea V. Watson: The Earle STEM Academy all-girls chess team took home a national championship trophy
and its members might get to meet President Barack Obama. A recent win at the All-Girls National Chess Tournament in Chicago last month could earn the five students the opportunity to shake hands with the president. The team saw its budget slashed as Chicago Public Schools cut budgets around the district earlier this year. http://dnain.fo/1pXhpdn
OR YOU COULD JUST ASK FOR LESS ICE -- Lawsuit: Starbucks iced coffee contains too much ice, not enough coffee, by Washington Posts Sarah Larimer: "Just how important is the ice in an iced coffee? That question is now up for debate, as an Illinois woman has filed suit against Starbucks, claiming that the coffee chain is 'underfilling' its cold beverages, duping customers and serving drinks that contain less coffee than advertised. 'Starbucks is misleading customers who expect to receive the advertised amount of fluid ounces, states the class-action lawsuit, which was filed last week in federal court. http://bit.ly/1pXgWrF
MARK KIRKS AMONG THEM -- Trump Could Be A Real Drag On GOP: Here Are The Top 10 Senate Races To Watch, by WBEZs Jessica Taylor: "Aside from the White House race, there's another important battle this November that shouldn't be overlooked
the fight for control of the U.S. Senate. Republicans won back the majority just two years ago after eight years in the political wilderness. But they could just as easily lose that new-found power, especially if a controversial GOP nominee like Donald Trump is at the top of the ticket. Republicans believe that likely Democratic nominee Hillary Clinton could also damage some Democrats, though, with low approval ratings herself and the shadow of her email scandal still lingering." http://bit.ly/1pXhs91
THAT COULD BUY A LOT OF LEGROOM -- Ex-United CEO got $36.8 million severance package, by Chicago Tribunes Becky Yerak: "A former United Continental Holdings chief executive who left the airline last September amid an investigation into an alleged corruption scandal received a severance package totaling $36.8 million ... When Jeff Smisek, former United chairman, CEO and president, resigned in September, it was estimated he would depart with a golden parachute of at least $8.4 million and possibly double that amount. His pay package included $94,571 for unused vacation. http://trib.in/1pXhvli
FOODIE FODDER -- Inside Rick Bayless' Cruz Blanca, Opening Thursday On Randolph, by DNAinfo's Stephanie Lulay: "It's almost taco time. Chef Rick Bayless' two neighboring Randolph Street concepts
craft brewery and taquera Cruz Blanca Cervecera, and Baja-inspired seafood restaurant Lea Brava
will open on Thursday, just in time for Cinco de Mayo. Cruz Blanca, at 904 W. Randolph St., will not take reservations, as the taco and beer counters are both walk-up, but Lea Brava is now taking reservations online. Inspired by Emil Dercher, the brewer who left France and made his way to Mexico City, where he sold beers under the Cruz Blanca label. http://dnain.fo/1pXhxcP
WHERES RAHM? No public events.
WHERES RAUNER? At Old State Capitol in morning to talk motorcycle safety with IDOT and Illinois State Police then in Peoria for small business week event.
** A Message from Nuclear Matters: Some of America's existing nuclear energy plants face early closure due to current economic and policy conditions. Providing more than 62% of America's carbon-free electricity, existing, state-of-the-art nuclear energy plants play a vital role in achieving our clean-energy and carbon-reduction goals.
In Illinois, nuclear energy plants provide 48 percent of the state's electricity and 90 percent of our carbon-free electricity. The existing nuclear energy plants in Illinois also support approximately 28,000 direct and indirect jobs and contribute $9 billion to the state's economy.
If we want to keep Illinois working, we need policies that will keep Illinois state-of-the-art nuclear energy plants working for all of us. Join us at NuclearMatters.com. **
SUBSCRIBE to Illinois Playbook: http://politi.co/1NTMQid
SUBSCRIBE to the Playbook family: POLITICO Playbook: http://politi.co/1phAeAC
New York Playbook: http://politi.co/1ON8bqW ... Florida Playbook: http://politi.co/1JDm23W ... New Jersey Playbook: http://politi.co/1HLKltF ... Massachusetts Playbook: http://politi.co/1Nhtq5v ... Illinois Playbook: http://politi.co/1N7u5sb ... California Playbook: http://politi.co/1N8zdJU and our friends at POLITICO Brussels Playbook: http://politi.co/1FZeLcw ... All our policy and political tipsheets http://politi.co/1M75UbX
THE MEDIA ISSUE- POLITICO MAGAZINE ONLINE TODAY: As Washington prepares for the final White House Correspondents Dinner of the Obama Administration, POLITICO Magazine's MEDIA ISSUE takes a look at how the press has contributed to the rise of GOP frontrunner Donald Trump. Jack Shafer, Susan Mulcahy, Michael Grunwald, Michael Crowley and Campbell Brown are just some of the contributors to this must-read issue. Read here-http://politi.co/1aH8bTl
View Archives
This story tagged under:
Illinois
Most Read
Behind the scenes on the White House Correspondents' Dinner red carpet
An inside look at the White House Correspondents' Dinner
The Giant Al Qaeda Defeat That No Ones Talking About
Trump pushes Cruz to the brink
Trump: Even I would have helped Fiorina up
Obamacare's November surprise
How Ted Cruz Got Indiana Wrong
The Nation He Built
Clinton fundraising leaves little for state parties
Trump closes out Indiana by looking past it
Illinois Playbook
- POLITICO Archive
Tuesday,
5/3/16
Monday,
5/2/16
Friday,
4/29/16
Thursday,
4/28/16
Wednesday,
4/27/16
View the Full Illinois Playbook
Archives
Politico Magazine
How Ted Cruz Got Indiana Wrong
By Adam Wren
Why America Needs Iran in Iraq
By Zalmay Khalilzad
The Giant Al Qaeda Defeat That No Ones Talking About
By Michael Morell
How the Green Zone Helped Destroy Iraq
By Emma Sky
More on POLITICO
Core Footer - dropdown links
U.S. Edition
Europe Edition
POLITICO Links
News
POLITICO Home
Magazine
2016 Elections
Congress
Video
POLITICO Pro
POLITICO New York
Events
Blogs, Columns & Cartoons
Roger Simon
On Media
Josh Gerstein
Rich Lowry
Matt Wuerker
Tipsheets
The 2016 Blast
Playbook
Huddle
The Friday Cover
Influence
Morning Agriculture
Morning Cybersecurity
Morning Defense
Morning Education
Morning eHealth
Morning Energy
Morning Money
Morning Score
Morning Shift
Morning Tax
Morning Tech
Morning Trade
Morning Transportation
Pulse
Prescription Pulse
Policy
Agriculture
Campaigns
Cybersecurity
Defense
Education
eHealth
Energy & Environment
Finance & Tax
Health Care
Labor & Employment
Technology
Trade
Transportation & Infrastructure
More Info
About Us
Advertising
Breaking News Alerts
Digital Edition
Employment
FAQ
Feedback
Headlines
Photos
POWERJobs
Press
Register
Subscriptions
RSS/Widgets
Site Map
Store
2016 POLITICO LLC
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy