Skip to main content
Subscribe
Login
Search form
Search
Follow Us:
Main menuProviders
Mobility
Specialty Providers
Vendors
Smart Talk
Category Development
Editorial
Secondary menuNews
Blogs
Videos
Webcasts
Show Products
Resources
Advertise
Also Noted
You are hereHome
Blogs
Let's look at the mail order suppliers, shall we?
|
More
by:
Theresa Flaherty
-
05/02/2016
Well, it looks like I posted last weeks blog not a moment too soon. CMS released its highly anticipated list (and list upon list upon list) of the Round 2 re-compete contract suppliers.
I am sure you are all out there, busily poring over the list for you area of interest, both products and geography-wise.
And I know poor Kim Brummett and others like her will be poring over all of them.
So, in the interest of sanity, allow me to share initial thoughts on my area of interest: the diabetes category. Conveniently, it's also the only one that's a one-pager.
Last time around, CMS offered approximately 20 mail order contracts (I say approximately, because the number shifted a few times.)
This time around they offered only nine.
A quick comparison of this years list with the previous list, reveals that only three of the nine contract suppliers are repeaters. The new list also reveals that of the nine, four were among the top 10 providers in the category in the HME Databank in 2014.
So, first question, what kind of impact will reducing the number of mail-order suppliers by half have on a. beneficiary access and b. the suppliers themselves?
The second question is how these companies, will make any money off the new super low pricing?
It remains to be seen.
On a side note, scanning the websites of the new suppliers whose names I didnt recognize, I stumbled across something I hadnt seen before: a medical ID bracelet with a QR code. This way, emergency workers can scan the code and pull up what I would assume is a medical profile thats a bit more comprehensive then a few engrave words can ever provide.
For all I know, this has been around since about the time I let my subscription to Diabetes Forecast expire (I renewed in February and got my first issue last week, its good to be back!).
Tags:
mail order diabetic supplies,
national mail-order program
Log in or register to post comments
ESP
I had never heard of home medical equipment until I was hired at HME News. Nowadays, I talk to providers about everything from oxygen legislation to retail trends, but my specialty is the specialty markets, including diabetes, women's health, sleep and neb meds.
Theresa Flaherty
tflaherty@hmenews.com
Blog RSS Feed
Facebook page
Twitter link
Linked In link
Recent Posts
Let's look at the mail order suppliers, shall we?
Doing the contract limbo
Lack of sleep makes no cents
Another advice column obsession, another opportunity to have eyes opened
Pricing for test strips takes a dive, but where is the reaction?
Trending at Medtrade: Optimism, selfies and
man buns?
Can't anyone get a moment's peace?
What's your ranking? The all-powerful HME News contact database
I have a drug problem
Do the right thing
Archives
Browse
Blogroll
none yet
Home
Subscribe
About
Advertise
Contact Us
Media Kit
Privacy Policy
Login
2016 United Publications Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED