Login
Login with Facebook
Login with Google+
Login with Twitter
Login with Independent
Keep me signed in with social media
Remember me
Forgot your password?
Register
3 May 2016, Tuesday
RSS
Login/Register
News
Interviews
Most Read
Panama Papers
My Home
World
News
Oddities
Debate
Editor's Blog
Blogs & Opinions
Polls
Sports
Football
Tennis
F1
Waterpolo
Transfers
Others
Business
News
World
Financial
Company News
Arts
Stage
Books
Music
Cinema
TV
Crossword
Sudoku
Arcade
Life
Human
Health
Food
Education
Growing Up
Motoring
Fashion
Videos
Latest Videos
Newspaper
Leader
Letters
Opinions
Cartoon
Lifestyle & Culture
Supplements
E-Paper
Magazines
Taste & Flair
First
A & H
I DO
Motoring
Vamp
Malta Business Review
Jobs In Malta
DEALTODAY
DEALTODAY
Property Pricing
Home
>
Local
>
News
>
European Commission to give conditional approval for
European Commission to give conditional approval for free-visa travel for Turks to the EU
Gabriel Schembri
Tuesday, 3 May 2016, 13:21
Last update: about 33 minutes ago
The European Commission is set to give conditional approval for Turks to travel to Europe without the need of a visa or passport in the Schengen area.
A number of EU Member States, including Malta, have asked the European Commission to make sure that the proposed visa liberalization with Turkey may be suspended under certain conditions.
The European Commission willrecommend visa-free travel for Turkish citizens in Europe, though with some qualification. The Commission's endorsement is contingent on Ankara's fulfillment of some 72 "benchmarks" required of applicant countries. Turkey has met most, though not all, of the criteria.
The Maltese government agrees with the Commission's proposal but wants the right to suspend visa liberalisation if the number of third states nationals increase substantially.
Visa liberalization with Turkey, Ukraine and Georgia effectively means that around 130 million people will be able to travel to the EU over the next few years. But the Commission believes that, in reality, initial numbers will be low. Thevisa liberalisation applies only to holders of bio-metric passports, whilst all other passport holders will requirea standard visa.
Some countries are concerned that their citizens think that there are enough third country nationals coming into the EU. Moreover, when the EU did the same kind of visa liberalisation with the Western Balkans way back in 2009, thenumber of people applying for asylum from the Balkans increased exponentially.
The Commission's recommendation is likely to be subject to heated debate in the European Parliament, which must approve the plan before it goes to heads of government in June. Some MEPs have been critical of the Turkish Government's handling of human rights issues, such as freedom of expression and the treatment of minorities.
Some quarters believe that the European Parliament will not move on the Visa Liberalisation process without a revised Dublin Proposal. MEPs are expecting a proposal on Dublin also next week.
In a debate in the European Parliament recently, Commission Vice President Frans Timmermans suggested that the EU's refusal to engage with the Turkish Government on certain matters had been counter-productive. "What have those years [of non-engagement] done for human rights in Turkey? For the position of the press in Turkey? Nothing."
The visa liberalisation issue is one of the lynchpins of the EU-Turkey deal, on which the EU is counting to stem the flow of irregular migration from the Near East. Once the deal is approved Turkey would deliver on providing access to the labour market to non-Syrians; creating a common contact centre; and delivering on a roadmap on how 400,000 requests for international protection will be dealt with.
A spokesman for the Office of the Deputy Prime Minister and Ministry for European Affairs, when asked to comment, said that "whilst we do not want to give the impression that we are backing out of the EU-Turkey deal, we also want to make sure that there are sufficient safeguards so that Member States can respond should an emergency situation arise under the visa liberalisation programme."
don't miss
News
MEPs Miriam Dalli, Roberta Metsola
British newspaper interviews migrants
Unsightly masts in ODZ area of high
Defence argument closes in case of 20kg
Mr Clean human trafficking case
MCCAA warning over IKEA furniture range
Minister Chris Fearne takes over health
Watch: Tidal lane in Boffa Avenue being
open
Terms of Use
Advertising Rates
Contact Us
Designed and developed by Alert eBusiness
Independent Online. 2016. Standard Publications Ltd. Registered Office: Standard House, Birkirkara Hill, St. Julians, STJ 1149, Malta.