Subscribe
Sign In
Register
Home
Subscribe
Advertise with Us
Careers with Us
Contact News-Times
Newsletters
Digital edition
Terms of Use
Archives
FAQ
New Milford to pay new contractor $3M to clean up Century Brass
Newtown boys hold off New Fairfield to win lacrosse battle
Brookfield boys lacrosse avenges loss to Bunnell, wins third
State Police urge motorcycle safety
News
Local
Police Reports
Regional
National
World
Politics
Opinion
Science and Technology
Were you SEEN?
Sing much? You could win Hall & Oates tickets for local June 16
Longtime Danbury resident, civil rights leader to grace new $5
First responders descend on New Milford for search and rescue
Region 12 towns worry about state help for Agriscience project
Sports
Baseball
Football
Basketball
Hockey
Other
High School
UConn
College
High School Football
Danbury boys and girls track teams sweep OGrady Relays
HIGH SCHOOL ROUNDUP: Hatters rally past Wilton in baseball win
Green Wave bats stay hot in baseball win over Kolbe Cathedral
HIGH SCHOOL ROUNDUP: Bethel girls edge Immaculate in lacrosse
Business
Top Workplaces
Markets
Real Estate
Danbury, New Milford law firms merge
Danbury developer, philanthropist Ervie Bud Hawley
Primark to open Danbury location in June
Plans in place to improve downtown Ridgefield
Entertainment
Movies
Music
Arts
Television
Comics
Horoscope
Games
Lottery
100 years of King Features Syndicate
Broadway legend Betty Buckley brings cabaret to Ridgefield
Comic Greg Fitzsimmons at Mohegan Sun
Stamford-born, Rowayton-raised actor Treat Williams at Avon with
Living
Health
Home and Garden
Family
Religion
Travel
Food
Weddings
Engagements
2016 Connecticut Governors Tourism Award Winners Announced
Engagement: Berardi-Pessolano
Engagement: Vandergrift-Kaminsky
Engagement: Rizzo-Kaptein
Obituaries
Blogs
Classifieds
Jobs
Homes
Rentals
Cars
Find & Save
MenuSections
http://www.newstimes.com/news/us/article/Anti-abortion-activist-goes-to-trial-over-letter-7389323.php
Anti-abortion activist goes to trial over letter to doctor
Roxana Hegeman, Associated Press
Updated 8:29am, Tuesday, May 3, 2016
Photo: Jeff Tuttle, AP
Image 1of/1
CaptionClose
Image 1 of 1
FILE - In this April 20, 2011 file photo, Angel Dillard of Valley Center, Kan. arrives at the U.S. Federal District Courthouse in Wichita, Kan. Opening statements are expected Tuesday, May 3, 2016, in the 2011 lawsuit brought by the U.S. Department of Justice against Dillard, an anti -abortion activist, over a letter she sent to a Wichita physician saying someone might place an explosive under the doctor's car. less
FILE - In this April 20, 2011 file photo, Angel Dillard of Valley Center, Kan. arrives at the U.S. Federal District Courthouse in Wichita, Kan. Opening statements are expected Tuesday, May 3, 2016, in the 2011 ... more
Photo: Jeff Tuttle, AP
Anti-abortion activist goes to trial over letter to doctor
1/1
Back to Gallery
WICHITA, Kan. (AP)
A Kansas anti-abortion activist faces trial in federal court this week over a letter she sent to a Wichita physician saying someone might place an explosive under the doctor's car.Opening statements are expected Tuesday morning in the 2011 lawsuit brought by the U.S. Department of Justice against Angel Dillard under a federal law aimed at protecting access to abortion services. The civil case highlights the federal government's heightened concerns about perceived threats to abortion providers in the wake of Dr. George Tiller's murder in Wichita.
The government has accused the Valley Center woman of sending a threatening letter to Dr. Mila Means, who was training to offer abortion services. At the time, abortions had not been openly performed in Wichita since Tiller, one of the nation's few late-term abortion providers, was fatally shot in May 2009 by anti-abortion activist Scott Roeder as the physician served as an usher at his Wichita church.Dillard wrote in her 2011 letter that thousands of people from across the United States were scrutinizing Means' background and would know her "habits and routines.""They know where you shop, who your friends are, what you drive, where you live," the letter said. "You will be checking under your car everyday
because maybe today is the day someone places an explosive under it."Defense attorneys have argued that the letter is constitutionally protected speech. The 10th U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that the decision about whether the letter constituted a "true threat" should be left for a jury to decide."The context in this case includes Wichita's past history of violence against abortion providers, the culmination of this violence in Dr. Tiller's murder less than two years before Defendant mailed her letter, Defendant's publicized friendship with Dr. Tiller's killer, and her reported admiration of his convictions," the court panel wrote in its decision.Means has testified that her fears were heightened after reading a news story by The Associated Press that quoted Dillard in a July 2009 interview saying she had developed a friendship with Roeder while he was in jail awaiting trial."With one move, (Roeder) was able ... to accomplish what we had not been able to do," Dillard said in the interview. "So he followed his convictions and I admire that."Means eventually decided not to offer abortion services at her medical practice.The lawsuit
filed by the Justice Department's Civil Rights Division under the Freedom of Access to Clinic Entrances Act
seeks a court order that keeps Dillard from contacting Means or coming within 250 feet of Means, her home, car or business. It also seeks damages of $5,000 to Means and a civil penalty of $15,000.
Most Popular
1
Cops: Motorcyclist clocked at 133 mph
2
Sports Authority liquidation extends to Norwalk
3
Woman shares prison letter she says is from former Subway...
4
Historic landmark to become antique shop in New Milford
5
Overturned car closes road in Danbury
6
Lawsuit: Starbucks overfills cold drinks with ice
7
Tesla, facing failure, raises the ante
View Comments
2016 Hearst Communications, Inc.
Logo
Return to Top
About
Careers
Advertising
Terms & Conditions
About Our Ads
Ad Choices
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights
Contact
Contact Us
FAQ
Today's eEdition
Feedback
Submissions
Connect
Newsletter Sign-Up
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Hearst Newspapers
Copyright
Hearst Media Services Connecticut, LLC