Subscribe
Sign In
Register
Home
Subscribe
Advertise with Us
Careers with Us
Contact News-Times
Newsletters
Digital edition
Terms of Use
Archives
FAQ
New Milford to pay new contractor $3M to clean up Century Brass
Newtown boys hold off New Fairfield to win lacrosse battle
Brookfield boys lacrosse avenges loss to Bunnell, wins third
State Police urge motorcycle safety
News
Local
Police Reports
Regional
National
World
Politics
Opinion
Science and Technology
Were you SEEN?
Sing much? You could win Hall & Oates tickets for local June 16
Longtime Danbury resident, civil rights leader to grace new $5
First responders descend on New Milford for search and rescue
Region 12 towns worry about state help for Agriscience project
Sports
Baseball
Football
Basketball
Hockey
Other
High School
UConn
College
High School Football
Danbury boys and girls track teams sweep OGrady Relays
HIGH SCHOOL ROUNDUP: Hatters rally past Wilton in baseball win
Green Wave bats stay hot in baseball win over Kolbe Cathedral
HIGH SCHOOL ROUNDUP: Bethel girls edge Immaculate in lacrosse
Business
Top Workplaces
Markets
Real Estate
Danbury, New Milford law firms merge
Danbury developer, philanthropist Ervie Bud Hawley
Primark to open Danbury location in June
Plans in place to improve downtown Ridgefield
Entertainment
Movies
Music
Arts
Television
Comics
Horoscope
Games
Lottery
100 years of King Features Syndicate
Broadway legend Betty Buckley brings cabaret to Ridgefield
Comic Greg Fitzsimmons at Mohegan Sun
Stamford-born, Rowayton-raised actor Treat Williams at Avon with
Living
Health
Home and Garden
Family
Religion
Travel
Food
Weddings
Engagements
2016 Connecticut Governors Tourism Award Winners Announced
Engagement: Berardi-Pessolano
Engagement: Vandergrift-Kaminsky
Engagement: Rizzo-Kaptein
Obituaries
Blogs
Classifieds
Jobs
Homes
Rentals
Cars
Find & Save
MenuSections
http://www.newstimes.com/news/article/The-Latest-Indiana-polls-open-for-state-s-7389614.php
The Latest: Some Indiana polling sites seeing steady crowds
Updated 7:55am, Tuesday, May 3, 2016
Photo: Samuel Hoffman, AP
Image 1of/3
CaptionClose
Image 1 of 3
Republican presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, left, is joined by Indiana Gov. Mike Pence during a news conference before his public speech at the Grand Wayne Center in Fort Wayne, Ind., Monday, May 2, 2016. (Samuel Hoffman/The Journal-Gazette via AP)
NEWS-SENTINEL OUT; MANDATORY CREDIT; ; MAGS OUT less
Republican presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, left, is joined by Indiana Gov. Mike Pence during a news conference before his public speech at the Grand Wayne Center in Fort Wayne, Ind., Monday, May ... more
Photo: Samuel Hoffman, AP
Image 2 of 3
Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., speaks during a rally in Evansville, Ind., Monday, May 2, 2016. (Denny Simmons/Evansville Courier & Press via AP) MANDATORY CREDIT
Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders, I-Vt., speaks during a rally in Evansville, Ind., Monday, May 2, 2016. (Denny Simmons/Evansville Courier & Press via AP) MANDATORY CREDIT
Photo: Denny Simmons, AP
Image 3 of 3
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks with former Purdue basketball coach Gene Keady during a rally at The Palladium in Carmel, Ind., Monday, May 2, 2016.
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks with former Purdue basketball coach Gene Keady during a rally at The Palladium in Carmel, Ind., Monday, May 2, 2016.
Photo: Michael Conroy, AP
The Latest: Some Indiana polling sites seeing steady crowds
1/3
Back to Gallery
INDIANAPOLIS (AP)
The Latest on Tuesday's Indiana primary election (all times local):7:52 a.m.Some central Indiana polling stations are seeing steady crowds as voters cast their ballots in the state's primary election.Lines had formed outside some Indianapolis polling stations before those sites opened their doors Tuesday. But the deputy director of Marion County's clerk's office, Russell Hollis, says it's too early to say whether turnout out is heavier than normal for the primary.
About two dozen people were lined up outside the Broad Ripple Park Family Center on Indianapolis' north side before its polling station opened.Polling site inspector William Rawls says 140 people voted there in just over the first hour, which he calls very strong for a primary.In Hancock County, just east of Indianapolis, some polling stations were facing periodic technical problems, but all county polling sites were open.7:03 a.m.Polling stations have opened across Indiana for the state's closely-watched primary election after the Republican and Democratic presidential candidates spent days campaigning in the state.Polling sites opened to voters at 6 a.m. EDT Tuesday in 80 of Indiana's 92 counties. Voting sites opened an hour later in 12 counties in northwestern and southwestern Indiana that are on Central Daylight Time. All Indiana polling sites will close at 6 p.m. local time.Elaine Clark, a 57-year-old stress management trainer, was among Tuesday's early voters at Allisonville Christian Church's polling station in Indianapolis.Clark voted for Donald Trump in Indiana's Republican presidential primary. Clark says she likes Trump because of his business success and because he's not a politician. She says, "I'm excited to try a non-politician for once."1:42 a.m.The nation's attention turns to an Indiana primary election that could play a significant role in who wins the Republican and Democratic presidential nominations.Voters on Tuesday also will decide the GOP nominee for an open U.S. Senate seat. Other races include GOP primaries for two open U.S. House districts, and two challenges to Republican leaders in the state Senate.Turnout already has set records. The Indiana Election Division said that more than 270,000 people cast early ballots. That's nearly 50 percent more than the state's previous record for early voting in 2008.Election Division Co-Director Angie Nussmeyer says she doesn't know whether the jump in early voting will mean higher turnout overall. In other states, the presidential primaries have driven more voters to the polls.
Most Popular
1
Cops: Motorcyclist clocked at 133 mph
2
Sports Authority liquidation extends to Norwalk
3
Woman shares prison letter she says is from former Subway...
4
Historic landmark to become antique shop in New Milford
5
Overturned car closes road in Danbury
6
Lawsuit: Starbucks overfills cold drinks with ice
7
Tesla, facing failure, raises the ante
View Comments
2016 Hearst Communications, Inc.
Logo
Return to Top
About
Careers
Advertising
Terms & Conditions
About Our Ads
Ad Choices
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights
Contact
Contact Us
FAQ
Today's eEdition
Feedback
Submissions
Connect
Newsletter Sign-Up
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Hearst Newspapers
Copyright
Hearst Media Services Connecticut, LLC