Subscribe
Sign In
Register
Home
Subscribe
Buy E-N Merchandise
Contact Us
About Us
Advertise With Us
Subscriber Services
Place a Classified Ad
Privacy Policy
Site Terms of Use
Newsletters & Text Alerts
Find a Business in S.A.
News Archives
Brackenridge junior catcher feels a calling to the military,
Today in S.A. history
Community briefs - Southside Reporter
Holy Cross takes control early to secure 4-4A title
Local
News by Neighborhood
Texas
Obituaries
Traffic
Weather
Lake and River Levels
S.A. History
Guide to San Antonio
San Antonio Charity
Breaking News Video
Classifieds
Freshmans heroics propel Southwest past bi-district round
Sam Houston boys capture Region IV-5A track championship
Brackenridge junior catcher feels a calling to the military,
Today in S.A. history
US & World
Breaking News Anywhere
Border & Mexico
US
World
Health Care
Politics
Military
Track Flights
Strange News
Anti-abortion activist goes to trial over letter to doctor
Teacher sick-outs close most Detroit schools for a 2nd day
10 Things to Know for Today
Funeral will honor 6 of 8 victims in Ohio family shootings
Business
Local
Eagle Ford & Energy
National & International
Automotive News
Top Workplaces in S.A.
Technology
Business Features
Finance Features
Business Careers
Tech Features
Press Releases
From new to old, some of the gun safety features over time
Pioneer Energy Services books a $27.7 million loss, but beats
Appeals court rules against borrowers
The Wonder Woman and other power poses to raise your confidence
Sports
San Antonio Spurs
NBA
NFL
MLB
Soccer
Colleges
College Football
College Basketball
High Schools
High School Football
High School Basketball
Postgame Wrap: No call, but Spurs make no excuses in Game 2 loss
Postgame Wrap: No call, but Spurs make no excuses in Game 2 loss
Wild Spurs finish features botched officials' call, fan grabbing
Golf: Mondays high school results
Food
Restaurants
Food Voted Best in S.A.
Recipes & Cooking
Bars & Drinks
Snacks and Entertaining
Guide to Food in S.A.
Sponsored: Sip, Savor, Celebrate
San Antonio chef to cook at the White House for Cinco de Mayo
A James Beard award for S.A.? Wait until next year
Bohanan's bartender wins Patrn's Margarita of the Year contest
San Antonio chocolatier in final four of Spring Baking Challenge
Entertainment
What S.A. is Watching
Things To Do
Fiesta 2016
Rodeo 2016
Celebrity Buzz
Comics
Puzzles
Horoscope
Movies & TV
Music & Stage
Arts & Culture
Guide to San Antonio
Readers' Choice
Photos at S.A. Parties
Destinations
Ashley Sawyer, Catfish Alum, Dies at 23
Tobin announces theater, dance seasons
SA arts groups prep Big Give programming
13 things (besides the Spurs) to know about in San Antonio this
Lifestyle
Wedding Announcements
Bridal Ideas
Travel & Outdoors
Destinations
Health & Family
Senior Living
Home & Garden
Home Decorating
Trends & Style
Beauty and Fitness Tips
Better Living Tips
Gift Ideas
Pets
Green Living
'Millie the dumpster dog' is healing in foster care, Facebook
12 stylish rental cabins in Texas perfect for summer vacation
Who controls your medical and financial decisions when you're
The Legacy at Longue Vue
Opinion
Editorials
Commentary
Letters to the Editor
Columnists
Third & Ave. E
Editorial Cartoons
Josh Brodesky
Robert Seltzer
O. Ricardo Pimentel
Bruce Davidson
Maria Anglin
Gloria Padilla
Fiorina a smart choice for Cruz
GOP, millenials not seeing eye to eye
Lets look beyond Trump to those in pain
Your Turn: May 3
Cars
Car Tips and Help
News & Reviews
Vehicle Search
Car Features
Latest Car Reviews
VWs Passat sedan gets updated for 2016, bringing styling
Nissan Murano crossover returns for 2016 after getting a complete
Cadillac rolls out the all-new CT6 sedan, and one couple gets
Jobs
Salary Wizard
Top Workplaces
Career Features
Proposed rule would delay questions about criminal history
US consumer spending inches up in March
US economy struggles at start of election year
Homes
Home Search
Apartment Search
Land
Rentals
Open Houses
New Homes Search
Hill Country Living
New Construction
Real Estate Tips
Home Yard Tips
Home DIY
Kitchen, Bed and Bath
Home Decorating
Austin cliff-side mansion with granite bathtub hits market for
The 9 most expensive homes on the market in San Antonio
San Antonio architecture firm Lake | Flato honored again for this
Local developer amasses land along Broadway near The Pearl
Find&Save
MenuSections
http://www.mysanantonio.com/business/fool/article/1-Fast-Growing-Energy-Dividend-Stock-Not-Being-7389720.php
1 Fast-Growing Energy Dividend Stock Not Being Hurt by Oil Volatility
Adam Galas, The Motley Fool
Published 7:00am, Tuesday, May 3, 2016
Source: Shell Midstream Partners.
Dividend investors might be surprised to find that not all energy dividends are suffering amid the worst oil crash in over 50 years.
SHLX Dividend data by YCharts
Shell Midstream Partners (NYSE: SHLX) has crushed the payout growth rate of the overall MLP industry, as well as the broad S&P 500, over the past year.It's even outperformed fellow midstream growthsuperstars such as Phillips 66 Partners (NYSE: PSXP), MPLX (NYSE: MPLX), and Valero Energy Partners (NYSE: VLP).
So what exactly is the key toShell Midstream Partners' dividend growth greatness? Here's why I am confident that Shell Midstream Partners' superb payout growth could continue for the next decade or even beyond.
Quality assets and a strong sponsor"In our initial public offering we launched the partnership with a flagship portfolio of high-quality assets in strategically advantaged locations. At that time, we told you that our dropdown strategy was to build on that portfolio with accretive fee-based assets, and we accomplished that by completing $1.2 billion of dropdowns."-- John Hollowell, CEO, Shell Midstream Partners
The key to maintaining strong payout growth that's sustainable, even during an oil crash, is to insulate an MLP's distributable cash flow (DCF) from a connection to energy prices via long-term, fixed-fee contracts.
It's also important that a fast-growing midstream MLP have a sufficiently large potential dropdown pipeline from its sponsor. Here are how each of these refiner midstream MLPs' growthopportunities compare:
Shell Midstream Partners: Management noted in a February earnings release, that the future potential EBITDA of projects that may be dropped down to SHLX from Shell amounts to $3.5 billion.
Phillips 66 Partners: $9 billion in new midstream project spending by Phillips 66, a projected 267% increase in EBITDA between 2015 and 2018.
Valero Energy Partners: $715 million in eligible new midstream assets spending by Valero Energy in 2016 alone.
MPLX: Backlog of growth projects and dropdowns worth potentially$33 billion.
All of these MLPs have plenty of growth opportunities available. However, Valero Energy Partners' investors need to remembera key differenceregardingtheir MLP'sgrowth runway. Valero Energy, while a large refiner, owns far fewer midstreamassets than its larger peers -- Phillips 66, Marathon Petroleum, and Royal Dutch Shell. That means that its distribution growth may remain impressive for the next five years, but maintaining that pace beyond that might prove challenging.
Payout growth is just one important factor
MLPForward Yield2015 Distribution Coverage Ratio (DCR)2015Distribution GrowthProjected Annual Distribution Growth
Shell Midstream Partners
2.4%
1.65
34%
28%
Phillips 66 Partners
3%
1.30
35%
30% through 2018
Valero Energy Partners
2.7%
2.06
20%
24%
MPLX
6.1%
1.27
31%
12% to 15% in 2016
Sources: Yahoo! Finance, earnings releases, earnings presentations,10-Ks,management guidance, Fastgraphs.
Shell Midstream Partners' short track record of strong payout growth is notable not just for its magnitude, but especially because it's distribution coverage ratio -- one of the most important long-termpayout sustainability metrics--has been growing steadily.
Source: Shell Midstream Partners.
Over its first year of existence,Shell Midstream Partners' has been retainingincreasingly morecash flow, which can be used to fundfurther growth with less dependence on debt or equity markets. In this challenging energy environment that is an excellent competitive advantage to have.
However,as impressiveas Shell Midstream's payout profile is, dividend lovers also need to consider one more thing.
Never forget to watch out for excessive debt"We said we will maintain a conservative balance sheet throughout the year, and we did so by completing two equity offerings in May and November to partially fund the dropdowns. ... [O]ur ability to access the equity markets allowed us to stay well within our targeted leverage ratios and speaks to the quality of our asset base." -- Hollowell, Q4 earnings call
As Kinder Morgan proved last year, management that's too focused on payout growth at the expenseof balance-sheet healthisn't doing investors any favors.
That's why I'm so pleased that Shell Midstream is willing to use its strong unit price as valuable currency to continue acquiring new assets,and being, at least thus far, less reliant on debt markets than its peers. For example, here is each MLP's debt-to-EBITDA, or leverage ratios:
MPLX: 4.7
Phillips 66 Partners: 4.4
Valero Energy Partners: 2.5
Shell Midstream Partners: 2.1
In fact, Shell Midstream just recently announced that it was selling another 12.7million that would raise around $400 million, potentially meaning another dropdown may be imminent. While theunit price is down significantly since its all time highs, (this secondary offeringrepresents 13%dilution to existing unitholders), the money is very likely to mean that DCF per unit will still rise enough to continue strong payout growth for the rest of the year.
Risks to considerWhile there's a lot to admire about Shell Midstream Partners, it only had its IPOabout a year ago. That means more conservative investors might want to wait a few more quarters to make sure both management and Royal Dutch Shellprove to be wise stewards of unitholder capital.
In addition, aresumption of plunging oil pricescould reduceits price enough to force increased borrowing. Thanks to its low debt levels, even in this scenario, Shell Midstream's growth prospects for2016willprobably remain strong. Only in the event that energy prices remain low for several years is the MLP likely to be unable to live up to its full growth potential.
Bottom lineNothing in the energy sector iscertain. However,given its massive drop down pipeline, strong balance sheet, and relativelystrongaccess to equity capital markets,Shell Midstream has the potential to become one of the best dividend growth stocks of the next decade.
A secret billion-dollar stock opportunity The world's biggest tech company forgot to show you something, but a few Wall Street analysts and the Fool didn't miss a beat: There's a small company that's powering their brand-new gadgets and the coming revolution in technology. And we think its stock price has nearly unlimited room to run for early in-the-know investors! To be one of them, just click here.
The article 1 Fast-Growing Energy Dividend Stock Not Being Hurt by Oil Volatility originally appeared on Fool.com.
Adam Galas has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool owns shares of and recommends Kinder Morgan. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.Copyright
1995 - 2016 The Motley Fool, LLC.
All rights reserved. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Latest Business News
Does This Upstart Pose a Threat to GlaxoSmithKline?
Better Buy Now: Nike, Under Armour, or Lululemon?
The Weak Oil Market Continues to Batter MRC Global Inc.'s...
Airline Earnings Look Great on Paper, Thanks to Oil
Forget Bluebird Bio, Inc.: These 3 Stocks Are Better Buys
Why Twitter Inc. Stock Dropped 11.7% in April
1 Fast-Growing Energy Dividend Stock Not Being Hurt by Oil...
6 Must-Read Quotes from Microsoft's Earnings Call
Warm Weather Continues to Cool Off UGI Corp.'s Earnings
Value Investing in Spring: 3 Stocks to Put on Your Radar in May
Ready for Medicare? Not Until You Read This
For Interactive Intelligence, the Future Gets Cloudier
4 Things You May Be Surprised to Learn Costco Sells
This is Why 2015 Was So Great for NVIDIA Stock
Apple Watch: A First-Year Win, but What About the Long Term?
Business Videos
Stay Connected
Most Popular
1
Sheriff: California mother connected to 'horrific' child abuse...
2
Sheriff: 8 children rescued, woman arrested after 'horrific'...
3
Thank you for subscribing
4
Texas teen ejected from carnival ride to her death at El Paso...
5
These were the 30 highest paying jobs in the San Antonio area...
6
Young fan traveled 3 hours to meet the San Antonio Spurs for...
7
Warrant: Slain pregnant Texas teen found with uterus removed
View Comments
2016 Hearst Communications, Inc.
Logo
Return to Top
About
Corporate Home
Careers
Advertising
Ad Choices
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights
Contact
FAQ
Newsroom Contacts
Purchase Photos
Place a Classified Ad
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Instagram
Subscribe
San Antonio Express-News
ExpressNews.com
iPad app
eEdition
Search Our News Archive
Manage Your Subscription
Hearst Newspapers
Copyright Hearst Newspapers, LLC