World News Publishing Focus by WAN-IFRA
www.wan-ifra.org
World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers
Mobile Navigation
Meta Navigation
Main Navigation
Search
Meta Navigation
About us
Membership
Contact Us
Press
My Account
WAN-IFRA Search
Main Navigation
EventsWorld News Media Congress
World Editors Forum
World Advertising Forum
World Publishing Expo
World Printers Forum
Ad Blocking Action Day
Newsroom Summit
Publish Asia
Digital Media Africa
Digital Media Asia
Digital Media Europe
Digital Media India
Digital Media Latinoamrica
WAN-IFRA India
WAN-IFRA Italia
WAN-IFRA Middle East
Zeitung Digital
Study Tours
Webinar Series
AwardsWorld Digital Media Awards
European Digital Media Awards
African Digital Media Award
Asian Digital Media Awards
Indian Digital Media Awards
LATAM Digital Media Awards
Middle East Digital Media Awards
Asian Media Awards
Certificate for standardised printing
Color Quality Club
World Young Reader Prize
Training
ConsultingDigital Media Consulting
Editorial Consulting
Newspaper Production
Executive ProgrammeseRev
InsightsResearch reports
Newsletters
Executive News Service
World Press Trends
World News Publishing Focus
Asian NewsMedia Focus
Tablet app
Media Transformation
New Revenue Streams
Distributed Content
Ad Blocking
Public Affairs & Media Policy
South Asian Newspaper Directory
Industry Updates
BlogsBusiness
Digital Media
Editors Weblog
Incubator
Press Freedom
Print Production
Media Policy
World Publishing Expo Blog
Press FreedomMedia Development
3 May World Press Freedom Day
Declaration of Table Mountain
Journalists Killed
Gebran Tueni Award
Golden Pen of Freedom
APN - Arab Press Network
RAP21 - African Press Network
News Literacy
Editors
Printers
DME16 takeaways: questions abound, but answers coming around
World News Publishing Focus
World News Publishing Focus
Your Guide to the Changing Media Landscape
Blog Navigation
Home
Business
Digital Media
Editorial
Incubator
Press Freedom
Print Production
Media Policy
DME16 takeaways: questions abound, but answers coming around
Uncertainty reigns today in digital news publishing and that was evident at Digital Media Europe in Vienna last week. But there was also some true moxy on display. With a little crowdsourcing, here are our takeaways from the event that drew 330 executives from 35 countries.
To get a flavour of the event, visit our Flickr page or follow the conversation on Twitter at #DME16
That tweet seemed to indeed capture some of the uncertainty surrounding the media landscape today and many of the dicussions in Vienna, whether it was about digital revenue (reader revs, advertising, mobile, video, etc.), or the distributed content/platform issue, or a solid video strategy, or the myriad issues around digital advertising (ad blocking, native, mobile).
And if you read Joshua Topolskys recent post on Medium, Your media business will not be saved, its easy to just bury your head in the sand and say, what the hell?
But if you read between the lines in his post, there is a hint of optimism amid the sobering salvos. And that tweet, and presentation (by Mia Mabanta of Quartz), above also shouldnt be interpreted as publishers being a bunch of aimless, lost souls who dont have a clue at the moment.
Indeed, the success stories, the absolute failures and bold experiments shared in Vienna served as inspiration and a good indication that most news organisations are working on all fronts to stay a very serious player in the news race.
My quick takeaway: Its always interesting to see how The New York Times, The Daily Mail, Schibtsted, BILD
all big brands in different markets and different ways, all on stage
share their strategies to a full room of publishers who probably dont have the resources and scale to match their might. Yet the diamonds in the rough of this conference were indeed the smaller and regional publishers who, just like those big brands, are leveraging their brands by building bold, low-cost projects that are proving to be successful. Their agile, fail-fast, fail-to-win approach is something even the heavyweights can learn from.
One other: I have known Alexis Johann, managing director of Styria Digital One in Austria, for a few years. Great guy: sharp, passionate about digital, and usually a calming presence.
But when he sat on the panel discussion about Distributed Content to discuss Facebook Instant Articles, Google AMP, etc., this thorny topic tapped into the borderline temperamental side of Alexis. I have never seen Alexis so animated about such a topic. It just reveals the conundrum facing publishers today about where to distribute their content
or not.
Our takeaways
Nick Tjaardstra, Deputy Director Global Advisory, WAN-IFRA
Biggest takeaway for me was the uncertainty over future revenue streams: quality video is still mainly a bet, branded content is in early stages, ditto distributed content which is simply brand marketing. The successes of NYT and DMG are hard to replicate. It was the small, low-cost experiments that resonated the most: from diamonds on 'miss', to Croation TV cost cutting, to the Tagezeitung 12 app.
Kalle Jungkvist, Senior Advisor to Schibsted Sweden CEO and WAN-IFRA Principal Consultant:
The fierce battle between Google and Facebook about mobile domination. All disguised as an ideological struggle between open and closed internet (where Google have somewhat of a point).
The need for a sophisticated and diversified approach to and analysis of distributed content (especially Facebook Instant Articles). An uncritical euphoria can easily give a harsh backlash.
The impressive results of BILDs ad blocking strategy.
The fundamental need for growth of video content on news sites in order to compete for a dominant market position. At the same time the fundamental challenge of finding a sustainable business model if you look on video as a business area in itself.
The growing need for media companies to evolve from publishing companies to be publishing companies and tech companies.
Andreas Pfeiffer, media analyst, Pfeiffer Report, who also recently authored WAN-IFRAs report on Distributed Content.
DME16 clearly demonstrated to what extent distributed content is at the forefront of most publishers preoccupations. As an intriguing and exciting possibility to grow reach and engagement for individual news stories - but also to some extent as a threat to the coherence and context of the editorial offering a publisher provides. How big a threat is a matter of appreciation and background, however, but there seems to be a consensus that this aspect of media distribution needs to be watched very carefully
Ralf Ressmann, Director of EMEA, WAN-IFRA
You dont have to be rich to be successful. Small companies with brave and bold decisions can move a lot. For example, Russmedia throwing out all national agencies for mobile sales and going their own way with mobile advertising. Same goes with our Croatian guys at 24sata, who admittedly dont have tons of money, but took the hard lessons of their failures and turned those into big successes with their new video strategy.
Valerie Arnould, Business Editor
Video is an area were you can burn a lot of money, and we dont all have the financial strength of MailOnline to launch live TV and a cable offering likeMail TV announced by Kevin Beatty at DME. But as Magnus Zaar said, a video strategy is not optional,Video will define your editorial product. How do you position your video? You can't rely on clickbait video. Take it seriously."To be discovered among the competition you need to offer original, differentiated content. Two interesting cases following this strategy are 24sata in Croatia and Daily Telegraphs new video strategy in London. In Croatia, after a failed strategy trying to copy linear TV, 24sata focused on using internal talent,tapping into the emotional aspects of storytelling, featuring special livestreaming segments, and cooperate with YouTubers (though Chantal Ferrero of Maker Studios says that successful YouTubers are aware of their value and becoming accessible only for big media companies like them, thanks to the Disney ownership), and increase visibility on both Facebook and YouTube. And its a success for them. After thorough homework, the Telegraph chose to launch a Telegraph Video channel. Its going live in May with a mix of in-house production (e.g. video series) and curation of relevant content. They will test advertising formats that are not typical pre-rolls. In Spain, the video studio is also a big part of El Pas new newsroom, said Alberto Barreiro, during his presentation on digital transformation.
Tags
#DME16
Digital advertising
distributed content
online video
Paid Content
Author
Dean Roper
Date
2016-04-29 13:46
Add new comment
Bookmark/Search this post
Twitter
Facebook
Google
LinkedIn
Yahoo
Xing
WAN-IFRA Search
Business
Digital Media
Editorial
The World Editors Forum is the organisation within the World Association of Newspapers devoted to newspaper editors worldwide. The Editors Weblog (www.editorsweblog.org), launched in January 2004, is a WEF initiative designed to facilitate the diffusion of information relevant to newspapers and their editors.
Tags
advertising
analysis
audience engagement
business models
daily newspaper
digital media
freedom of speech
innovation
internet
investigative journalism
journalism
mobile
mobile publishing
newspapers
newspapers and democracy
online journalism
paid online content
paywalls
press freedom
safety of journalists
social media
tablets
World Editors Forum
World Newspaper Congress
World Publishing Expo
more tags
2016 WAN-IFRA - World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers
Footer Navigation
Home
Imprint
Privacy Policy
Login