Sign In
Register
Home
Archives
Blogs
Americans pick the best and worst U.S. hotel chains
Celebrities with exotic pets
Internet trolls attack Old Navy's interracial ad
The gun-toting women of the Mexican drug cartels
Local
Weather
Traffic
Politics
Joel Connelly
Marijuana
Science
Environment
Obituaries
Crime
City says 23 property owners broke fair housing laws
Viageddon continues: Bertha under viaduct, traffic not completely
Bertha inches ahead, viaduct closure begins, traffic slows
Police: Dad busts peeper at Sea-Tac Airport bathroom
US & World
Crime
U.S.
Washington D.C.
Asia
Africa
Middle East
Europe
Latin America/Carribean
Canada
Odd News
Anti-abortion activist goes to trial over letter to doctor
Teacher sick-outs close most Detroit schools for a 2nd day
10 Things to Know for Today
Funeral will honor 6 of 8 victims in Ohio family shootings
Business
Boeing/Aerospace
Microsoft/Tech
Press Releases
Sponsored Content
CVS Health tops Street 1Q forecasts
American International Group posts 1Q loss
INSIDE WASHINGTON: Ag groups seek exemption from scrutiny
US consumer sentiment slips in April
Sports
Seahawks/NFL
Mariners/MLB
Sounders/Soccer
Huskies/Cougars
Jim Moore
More Sports
Seahawks players won't wear No. 24 to honor Marshawn Lynch
Seahawks receive mostly positive marks for NFL draft
Veteran NFL insider grades every team in the NFL draft
QB Trevone Boykin highlights Hawks' undrafted free agents
A&E
Events
Movies
TV
Music
Restaurants
Books
Theater/Arts
Celebrities
Kate Upton debuts engagement ring at Met Gala
Boxer Shane Mosley rescues baby from burning car
Report: Kerry Washington pregnant with second child
Police search Princes local pharmacy
Life
Home & Garden
Health
Food & Dining
Advice
Reader Blogs
Pets
Sponsored Content
Horoscopes
Visitors Guide
Newest hot swim fashions out of Brazil
Carolyn Hax: She's addicted to her phone
The 5 most talked-about moments from this week's 'Game of
2016 has been a bad year for celebrity deaths but not the worst
Travel
Comics
Comics Kingdom
Trivia
Play Four
Puzzles
Comics: Funky Winkerbean, Zits, The Phantom and more
Puzzles: Sudoku, Crossword, Kakuro and more
Trivia
Play Four
Photos
Education
Real Estate
MenuSections
http://www.seattlepi.com/business/article/CVS-Health-tops-Street-1Q-forecasts-7389645.php
CVS Health tops Street 1Q forecasts
Updated 4:55am, Tuesday, May 3, 2016
Photo: Lynne Sladky, AP
Image 1of/1
CaptionClose
Image 1 of 1
FILE - This Wednesday, June 17, 2015, file photo, shows a CVS/Pharmacy y Mas store in Miami. On Tuesday, May 3, 2016, CVS Health reports financial results.
FILE - This Wednesday, June 17, 2015, file photo, shows a CVS/Pharmacy y Mas store in Miami. On Tuesday, May 3, 2016, CVS Health reports financial results.
Photo: Lynne Sladky, AP
CVS Health tops Street 1Q forecasts
1/1
Back to Gallery
NEW YORK (AP)
Specialty drugs and retail expansions boosted CVS Health's first-quarter revenue by 18.9 percent, helping to offset higher costs and push results above Wall Street expectations.The nation's second-largest drugstore chain also confirmed its full-year profit outlook, though second-quarter forecasts fall short of expectations.First-quarter profit fell 6.1 percent during the period to $1.15 billion, or $1.04 per share, mainly on higher costs associated with the acquisition of Omnicare and pharmacies at Target. Excluding certain expenses, the company earned $1.18 per share.
The results topped Wall Street expectations, with the average estimate of 25 analysts surveyed by Zacks Investment Research for earnings of $1.16 per share.The Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based drugstore chain and pharmacy benefits manager posted a18.9 percent boost in revenue to $43.22 billion in the period, also beating Street forecasts. Twenty-six analysts surveyed by Zacks expected $42.98 billion.Revenue for the company's key pharmacy benefits unit rose 20.5 percent to $28.8 billion on a boost in claim volume and the sale of specialty drugs. The claim volume boost of 22.6 percent comes primarily from new business associated with the year-ago buyout of Omnicare and the expansion into the pharmacy and clinic business of retail giant Target Corp.Meanwhile, retail revenue rose 18.6 percent to $20.1 billion, also benefiting from the Omnicare and Target additions. Same-store sales growth, another key indicator of retail health, rose 4.2 percent during the quarter.For the current quarter ending in July, CVS Health expects its per-share earnings to range from $1.28 to $1.31. Analysts surveyed by Zacks had forecast adjusted earnings per share of $1.35. The company reaffirmed its outlook for full-year earnings in the range of $5.73 to $5.88 per share.CVS Health Corp. leaders have said that they expect growth to pick up in the second half of this year._____Elements of this story were generated by Automated Insights (http://automatedinsights.com/ap) using data from Zacks Investment Research. Access a Zacks stock report on CVS at http://www.zacks.com/ap/CVS_____Keywords: CVS Health, Earnings Report, Priority Earnings
Most Popular
1
9 arrested, 5 police injured: Another May Day in Seattle
2
Missing boy, 6, found dead near Big Four Ice Caves
3
Carolyn Hax: I want kids but don't want to be 'Mommy'
4
Sinkhole opens near Sound Transit tunnel in Ravenna
5
Hansen's Sodo arena project suffers huge loss in City Council...
6
QB Trevone Boykin highlights Seahawks' undrafted free agents,...
7
Carolyn Hax: She's addicted to her phone
View Comments
2016 Hearst Communications, Inc.
Logo
Return to Top
About
Our Company
Careers
Advertising
Ad Choices
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights
Contact
Newsroom Contacts
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Instagram
Hearst Newspapers
Copyright
Hearst Seattle Media, LLC