Computerworld
Budget 2016: Government cracks down on GST-free online purchases
News
Technology
News
Business
Cloud Computing
Data Centre
Gaming Dev
Government
Infrastructure
Mobility
Networking
Open Source
Security
Servers
Social Networking
Software
Software Development
Storage
Tech Planet
Telecoms
Tutorials
Unified Comms
Virtualisation
Tools
Blogs
Editorial Contacts
Events
IT Media Releases
Join Computerworld
Newsletters
NBN
RSS
Slideshows
Vendor View
Videos
Zones
Whitepapers
All Whitepapers
Business + Management
Cloud Computing
CRM
Data Centre
Data Management
Disaster Recovery
Network
Security
Storage
Telecommunications
Unified Communications
Virtualisation
Wireless
Other Whitepapers
Login
Username
Password
Forgot password?
Sign up now to get free exclusive access to reports, research and invitation only events.
Twitter
Facebook
Budget 2016: Government cracks down on GST-free online purchases
New measure would force Amazon-style online retailers with a $75k+ turnover in Australia to collect GST
Rohan Pearce (Computerworld)
03 May, 2016 20:32
-
-
-
-
print
email
Comments
The government will extend the GST to cover all overseas purchases in a measure that will capture sales from large online retailers such as Amazon.com.Previously, sub-$1000 online purchases were not liable for GST.The intent of this measure is that low value goods imported by consumers will face the same tax regime as goods that are sourced domestically, budget papers state.The measure is expected to bring in an additional $300 million over the forward estimates period.Overseas retailers with turnover in Australia of $75,000+ will be required to collect GST under the changes mooted by the government. The measure will be reviewed after two years.
The new arrangements, which require agreement from the states and territories as well as federal legislation, will kick in on 1 July 2017.Former treasurer Joe Hockey announced in August last year that agreement on the changes had been reached at a Council on Federal Financial Relations Tax Reform Workshop.The government has earmarked $13.8 million over four years in funding for the Australian Taxation Office to implement the measure.As part of last years budget the government announced a so-called Netflix tax designed to extend the GST to digital goods and services purchased by Australians.
Read more Budget 2016: Government unveils Google tax
The Tax and Superannuation Laws Amendment (2016 Measures No. 1) Bill 2016 is currently before the Senate.
Read More:
Budget 2016: Federal government unveils 10-year enterprise tax plan
Budget 2016: NBN approaches limit of government funding
Budget 2016: Youth Jobs PaTH to help create employment opportunities
Brand Post
Untangling the complexity of cloud computing
More from Rackspace
Join the Computerworld newsletter!
Join
Error: Please check your email address.
Tags Budget 2016
More about Amazon.comAustralian Taxation OfficeBillNetflix
Editor's Recommendations
Budget 2016: Government unveils Google tax
Budget 2016: Government cracks down on GST-free online purchases
Defence trials IBMs Watson for psyops
NSW to appoint government CIO
Australian Signals Directorate updates Top 4 security guides
La Trobe University forges ahead with cloud-first strategy
Related Whitepapers
How to think like a Data Scientist
Show Comments
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Read next
Horizon Power prepares for data onslaught
Microsoft SQL Server 2016 finally gets a release date
Three steps to compliance for end-of-life systems
CSO Online
In pictures: Twitter's new Australian headquarters
In Pictures: Ultimate guide to Raspberry Pi operating systems, part 1
Inside Origin Energys skunkworks analytics program
Market Place
CSO Live Webcast: Hear from KuppingerCole Analysts and ForgeRock on User-Managed Access. Register now
F5 Security Hub NEW Look -
Try us out today!
APJ businesses think they will be breached: Here's why: Read the article NOW
Editorial Contacts
Advertising Information
Privacy Policy
RSS
Newsletters
Events
Whitepapers
News
Zones
IT Media Releases
Slideshows
Videos
Copyright 2016 IDG Communications. ABN 14 001 592 650. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of IDG Communications is prohibited.
IDG Sites:
PC World |
GoodGearGuide |
CIO |
CMO |
CSO |
Techworld |
ARN |
CIO Executive Council