NFL
NBA
CFB
MLB
Soccer
UFC
NHL
WWE
Golf
NASCAR
CBB
More
Trending
Lab
Lists
Video
Tickets
Arsenal
Why Danny Welbeck Is Arsenal's Most Improved Player in 2015/16
By
James
McNicholas
, Featured Columnist
May 3, 2016
Share
Tweet
Next ARTICLE
Use your
(arrow) keys to browse more stories
Matt Dunham/Associated Press
24
Reads
0
Comments
Arsenals 2015/16 season has not been one characterised by a sense of progress or improvement. However, its for that reason that the contribution of Danny Welbeck in the latter part of the campaign stands out.
Since returning from a nine-month absence in February, the England international has been excellenta far cry from the player who lost his way at the back end of last season.
There are other candidates for the title of Arsenals most improved player. Nacho Monreal continues to go from strength to strength, and he has secured a reputation as one of the most reliable full-backs in European football. In attack, Joel Campbell has significantly enhanced his standing with some eye-catching displays.
Matt Dunham/Associated Press
However, no improvement has been quite so dramatic as that of Welbeck. After joining Arsenal from Manchester United last September, he initially started brightly. He scored a hat-trick on his first UEFA Champions League start at the Emirates Stadium, and generally looked like a player coming into his own having left the club where he was reared.
Unfortunately, that initial form did not sustain. Around Christmas, Welbeck lost his place as Arsenals central striker to the returning Olivier Giroud. He spent the remainder of the season confined to the flank, and his confidence visibly dipped.
Perhaps time on the sidelines did him good. Not only has Welbeck looked even more muscular and powerful since his returnhes also appeared hungrier. The 25-year-old has had time to analyse his game, and he appears to have sharpened his attacking play.
Jon Super/Associated Press
Within minutes of making his return, he nodded home a stoppage-time winner to help Arsenal beat eventual champions Leicester City.
Since then, his goalscoring ratio has been goodaccording to stats service Squawka, he has only started six Premier League games yet has already scored four goals. Thats as many as he managedlast season in 25 appearances.
He has been far more effective when it comes to chance conversion. Last season Welbeck hit the target with just 53 percent of his attempts. This year, he has been significantly more accurate, testing the goalkeeper 69 percent of the time.
The most recent of those strikes was an accurate volley to secure a valuable three points against Norwich City. Welbeck came off the bench to make that impact, much to the consternation of the fans who rather see him picked ahead of Giroud.
Manager Arsene Wenger defended his decision to leave Welbeck on the sidelines at kick-off. He told Arsenal.com:
Welbeck came in and played very well [on his comeback], like the players who have been out for nine months always do.
You have to trust me on that, I know that well
after they come in they are super sharp and then after, against Crystal Palace, he had a very average game and looked a bit for one or two games that he paid for the physical energy he had given.
So you let them rest one or two games and you bring them back in. [Against Norwich], when he came on, you could see he is a different animal again.
Perhaps Wenger should be credited with some forward planning. This weekend, Arsenal have a match with Manchester City that has effectively become a play-off for third place and automatic qualification for the Champions League.
Welbeck looks to be returning to top condition at just the right time.Arsenals most improved player should be ready to deliver one more telling contribution to round off 2015/16.
James McNicholas is Bleacher Report's lead Arsenal correspondent and is following the club from a London base throughout 2015/16. Follow him on Twitterhere.
Share
Tweet
0
Comments
Follow Arsenal from B/R on Facebook
Follow Arsenal from B/R on Facebook and get the latest updates straight to your newsfeed!
Team StreamTM
Ranking Arsenal's Top Players for April
from Bleacher Report
Previous
Next
Out of Bounds
Arsenal Newsletter
We'd like to send you the most entertaining Arsenal articles, videos, and podcasts from around the web.
Subscribe Now
By signing up for our newsletter, you agree to our Terms and Privacy Policy.
Thanks for signing up.
Subscribe to More Teams
About
Advertise
Blog
Contact Us
Careers
Community Guidelines
Press
Privacy
Terms Of Use
Tickets
Stay on your game
Latest news, insights, and forecasts on your teams across leagues.
Choose Teams
Real-time news for your teams right on your mobile device.
Download
Copyright
2015 Bleacher Report, Inc. Turner Broadcasting System, Inc. All Rights Reserved. BleacherReport.com is part of Bleacher Report
Turner Sports Network, part of the Turner Sports and Entertainment Network. Certain photos copyright
2015 Getty Images. Any commercial use or distribution without the express written consent of Getty Images is strictly prohibited.
AdChoices