Skip to main content
Home
My Subscription
E-Edition
Jobs
Real Estate
Autos
Health
Food & Dining

Cynthia Allen: Getting ready to 'lose with Cruz'.
Republican presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, speaks during a rally at the Indiana State Fairgrounds in Indianapolis, Monday, May 2, 2016. (AP Photo/Michael Conroy)
I recently saw a political cartoon that quite accurately portrays the way many Americans seem to feel about the 2016 election cycle.
The cartoon depicts a voter poking his head out of the voting booth to question an election official passing by.
I dont see my candidate, he says. I call him Lesser of Two Evils.
At this stage in the game, there are no good choices
there are just choices that induce varying degrees of disgust.
On the Democratic side, we have an aging socialist and a woman under FBI investigation.
The Republicans offer a vulgar reality TV star who plays to our basest impulses and a self-absorbed climber who is almost universally disliked by his peers.
For Republicans who find the two leading GOP contenders
Donald Trump and Ted Cruz
equally distasteful, determining exactly who might serve as the lesser evil is a maddening decision, especially when considering the likelihood of that candidate winning the general election.
While conventional thinking might suggest that Trump will be crowned the GOP primary victor before the partys July convention, there is still a possibility he does not earn the 1,237 delegates needed to secure the nomination on the first ballot.
A contested convention leaves open the chance that Cruz or even another candidate
although thats improbable
could garner the support needed to take the prize.
And so, like many of my fellow conservatives, I am slowly and begrudgingly arriving at the conclusion that, assuming it is still possible, Cruz as the GOP nominee would be the lesser of the two evils.
His fight the establishment mantra and his refusal to cooperate in any real way with his congressional colleagues
even those in his party
have deservedly engendered the kind of disdain seldom seen in Washington.
Former House Speaker John Boehner told a California audience that Cruz is Lucifer in the flesh.
Of course thats an exaggeration. But then again...
Still, like the sitting president, Cruz is a constitutional lawyer
and a brilliant one at that.
He has argued before the U.S. Supreme Court nine times, and depending on your perspective, has been victorious more often than not.
His love for the Constitution and his commitment to it are difficult to dispute, and his promise to nominate conservative justices to the high court is reassuring.
Unlike his primary contender, Cruz has been a stalwart conservative
sometimes to his own detriment or that of his party
unwavering in his devotion to the causes and principles the Republican Party purports to value and seeks to uphold.
And while his long-winded speech introducing Carly Fiorina as his would-be running mate was at times a nauseating and counterproductive display of self-importance, his VP selection is laudable and smart.
Indeed, Cruz may have few attributes to recommend him, but thats a few more than his primary opponent.
And in the most bizarre election cycle in recent history, that tips the scale.
So count me in as someone who is prepared to lose with Cruz.
And, who knows, if lightning strikes and the email scandal produces charges against Hillary Clinton or her inner circle, maybe we end up with Cruz in the White House despite the GOPs best efforts to snatch defeat from the jaws of victory.

