site
Archive
e-edition
|
subscribe
|
find and save
|
newsletter
classifieds
Jobs
cars
Homes
Marketplace
FEATURED
NEWS NOW
Events planned around Truman's May 8 birthday
...
What's Happening | Tuesday, May 3 through 6
...
Historic preservation efforts honored
...
Events planned around Truman's May 8 birthday
...
What's Happening | Tuesday, May 3 through 6
...
Historic preservation efforts honored
...
Blue Springs student draws inspiration from her grandmother
Comment
By
By Michael Smithmichael.smith@examiner.net
Examiner
By
By Michael Smithmichael.smith@examiner.net
Posted May. 3, 2016 at 5:22 AM
By
By Michael Smithmichael.smith@examiner.net
Posted May. 3, 2016 at 5:22 AM
Blue Springs High School student AnnaBelle Cash has a really close relationship with her grandmother Linda Stratton.She had an assignment for an art project to construct a portrait of an older lady with wrinkles. She said she couldnt have thought of anyone better than her grandmother to draw for the assignment, someone who lived next door to Cash as a child and who she spent a lot of time with.I chose my grandma because she means a lot to me, Cash said. Shes been in my life since Day 1. I used to live right next to her, so I would go to her house every weekend. We always cooked things and had fun.Well, the two got to share one more moment together thanks to the color pencil portrait the young, talented artist drew. Her art project won the 2016 Congressional Art Competition in April. The competition was sponsored by U.S. Rep. Emanuel Cleaver IIs 5th Congressional District. Her portrait was chosen out of more than 200 entries.Cashs portrait titled Grandma will hang inside the Cannon Tunnel at the U.S. Capitol Building. for one year. She will attend the National Reception in Washington, D.C., and will receive a full tuition scholarship for $2,799 to the Kansas City Art Institute and will get a partial scholarship to Savannah College of Art and Design in Savannah, Ga.When Cash contacted Stratton about the news of her winning the competition, her grandmas reaction exuded happiness.She was freaking out, Cash said. She thought it was so cool. She was screaming on the phone and said, I cant believe it. Im going places!When Cash heard her name announced at the competition as the winner, she had a similar reaction.They were counting down from fifth to first, Cash said. When they called (Blue Springs art teacher Johnna Coleman) up I knew I had won. I didnt even know how to react. I was shaking so bad. They asked me to give a speech and thank people. And I said, I want to thank my art teacher
Then I started crying. It was so overwhelming.Cash said the portrait was her first color pencil project. It took her about three weeks to complete it. Luckily her specialty was creating portraits. She said she normally just uses a regular pencil but doing a colored pencil drawing was significantly different.You had to use a lot of different colors because the face is a lot of different colors with undertones and overtones, Cash said. The wrinkles were really hard to do, too. I had to use layers and layers of colors to get the right color.Page 2 of 2 - Beginning with cartoonsShe has come a long way in her journey to become an artist. When she was younger, she started out drawing cartoons with her late father Chris, who died Dec. 22, 2001.My dad was really good and was able to re-create images, Cash said. I drew inspiration from that and tried to do the same.Cash spent hours in her room drawing different body parts of characters and would draw them over and over until she got it the way she wanted it. That led to a lot of initial drawings being thrown into the trash.When I started doing portraits, I was not good, Cash said. I would sit there for hours and just draw eyeballs. Once I got good at that, I would just draw lips. I spent hours in my room just focusing on my art.Eventually all those hours of work paid off. In sixth grade, she won a Maximum Ride book cover designing contest and hers was chosen out of more than 2,000 entries. To make the feat even more impressive, she waited until the day before the entry deadline to begin drawing it.I drew it all in one day, Cash said. I was just like, I am going to do this really quick. I was completely surprised I got anything for it.Her art talents wouldnt just shine there. She has a display in the Blue Springs High School library of winning contest entries shes created while in high school, which included a pencil portrait of Albert Einstein.Coleman said Cash is one of the most talented artists to come through her class and said its her persistence and drive to get her artwork right that makes her successful.She probably has the most raw talent of any student I probably have come across, honestly, Coleman said. She has no trouble doing anything in art. Even if she doesnt feel comfortable with it or she doesnt like using that medium or drawing that subject, she is incredible at every single thing that she does. And she is a perfectionist. Sometimes she will be halfway done with something and erase the whole thing and start over.Cash has the talent to pursue a career as an artist and thats what she plans on doing. She hopes that she can get into animation and get into character design for a cartoon show.Once I get to the Kansas City Art Institute, I am going to definitely try everything out and see what I am best at, Cash said. But Ive always wanted to get into animation. It would be awesome (to get one of her drawing into a cartoon show).
By
By Michael Smithmichael.smith@examiner.net
Examiner
By
By Michael Smithmichael.smith@examiner.net
Posted May. 3, 2016 at 5:22 AM
Comment or view comments
Terms of Service
examiner.net
East Jackson County Directory
Featured Businesses
Loading...
Business Name
addressLocation, ST | website.com
Find East Jackson County Attractions
Bars
Restaurants
Beauty Salons
Entertainment
Doctors
Medical Specialists
Contractors
Education
Lawn Services
Lawyers
Shopping
Travel
Tanning
Used Cars
Wedding Services
Add your business here +
Events Calendar
Connect with Examiner
Facebook
Twitter
RSS
Back to top
Site Services
Contact Us
Subscribe
Vacation Hold
Yellow Pages
Market Place
Classifieds
Find Independence jobs
Cars
Real Estate
FindNSave
Boats Magazine
Online Submissions
Engagements
Weddings
Births
Anniversaries
Sister Publication
Boonville Daily News
Linn County Leader
Lake Sun Leader
Chillicothe Constitution-Tribune
The Examiner
Propel Marketing
More Content Now
Find&Save
Mobile Site
Stay Informed
Email newsletter
Sign Up Today
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
Copyright 2006-2016 Gatehouse Media, LLC Some rights reservedPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service|Gatehouse Media Publications
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted. Examiner | 410 S. Liberty, Independence, MO 64050