
Area Marinas Busy As Boating Season Looms.
ANTICIPATION GROWS FOR BOATING SEASON.

BUFFALO, NY -- As April winds down, and winter gasps it's final breaths, the calm, empty water of the Niagara river will soon be filled with Buffalo's vibrant boating community. For area marinas, the season is already well underway."The weather is kind of up and down, you know Buffalo weather," said Harbour Place Marina Service Manager Will Iacucci, "It was great last week for our first week open and this week it's a little chilly, but we're pushing through it."Harbour Center has only a handful of boats currently in the water at it's Niagara St. location, but that will change soon.%INLINE%"All these boats will go into the water," Iacucci said, motioning to a number of craft still wrapped in their winter coverings, "Then we have another off-site storage area where there are a lot of boats as well."On Fuhrmann Blvd., RCR Yachts have about 25 craft already docked. When their slips are full they'll max out at about 300 boats. They'll service even more."There are a lot of boaters in Buffalo and a limited number of slips, so we have a waiting list for our marina and we've generally got a waiting list for our service work as well," said RCR Marina Manager Darren Wright. As privately-owned businesses, both Harbour Place and RCR have been open for a few weeks. Public landings like the Erie Basin Marina won't begin opening until at least May 1st. For people like Joe Schichtel, that's just too long to wait.%INLINE%"The bottom of the boat here, we had to put on anti-fouling paint because the boat sits in the water, you don't want algae to form on the bottom of the boat," Schichtel illuminated. He's prepping his sailboat for the season, which his wife races on Tuesday nights."If you're out there you can see boats, amazing how many boats there are. I'm not a racer, but I'll go out on Saturday's with my wife. Saturdays, Sundays; it depends on what's going on."It's evident listening to the industrious souls toil away in the brisk winds of the early Western New York spring that their minds are in a much warmer place. Back at RCR Yachts, Darren professes his adoration for not only what's to come, but the present as well."It's nice this time of year. People are coming around. It's nice to see old friends and customers. People are generally happy around here. How can you not be?
