World News Publishing Focus by WAN-IFRA
www.wan-ifra.org
World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers
Mobile Navigation
Meta Navigation
Main Navigation
Search
Meta Navigation
About us
Membership
Contact Us
Press
My Account
WAN-IFRA Search
Main Navigation
EventsWorld News Media Congress
World Editors Forum
World Advertising Forum
World Publishing Expo
World Printers Forum
Ad Blocking Action Day
Newsroom Summit
Publish Asia
Digital Media Africa
Digital Media Asia
Digital Media Europe
Digital Media India
Digital Media Latinoamrica
WAN-IFRA India
WAN-IFRA Italia
WAN-IFRA Middle East
Zeitung Digital
Study Tours
Webinar Series
AwardsWorld Digital Media Awards
European Digital Media Awards
African Digital Media Award
Asian Digital Media Awards
Indian Digital Media Awards
LATAM Digital Media Awards
Middle East Digital Media Awards
Asian Media Awards
Certificate for standardised printing
Color Quality Club
World Young Reader Prize
Training
ConsultingDigital Media Consulting
Editorial Consulting
Newspaper Production
Executive ProgrammeseRev
InsightsResearch reports
Newsletters
Executive News Service
World Press Trends
World News Publishing Focus
Asian NewsMedia Focus
Tablet app
Media Transformation
New Revenue Streams
Distributed Content
Ad Blocking
Public Affairs & Media Policy
South Asian Newspaper Directory
Industry Updates
BlogsBusiness
Digital Media
Editors Weblog
Incubator
Press Freedom
Print Production
Media Policy
World Publishing Expo Blog
Press FreedomMedia Development
3 May World Press Freedom Day
Declaration of Table Mountain
Journalists Killed
Gebran Tueni Award
Golden Pen of Freedom
APN - Arab Press Network
RAP21 - African Press Network
News Literacy
Editors
Printers
Press regulation in an era of convergence
World News Publishing Focus
World News Publishing Focus
Your Guide to the Changing Media Landscape
Blog Navigation
Home
Business
Digital Media
Editorial
Incubator
Press Freedom
Print Production
Media Policy
Press regulation in an era of convergence
The regulation of the press in an era of media convergence is a thorny issue, which regulators around the world have tried to either grapple with or sweep under the carpet. Irini Katsirea, Reader in International Media Law at the University of Sheffield examines the position of the electronic press under the Audiovisual Media Services Directive, and the implications of the New Media Online case for the future of media frameworks.
The time has long passed when newspapers were just news printed on paper. They are still that, but also now include news content published online, on websites which can carry videos that are reminiscent of television. The technological convergence between press and broadcasting throws into sharp relief the historically disparate regulation of the two sectors, including in the UK where the press is subject to a voluntary system of self-regulation while television is subject to statutory regulation under Ofcom. This raises the question of whether technological convergence should lead to regulatory convergence. The topic was debated at length by a range of academics and practitioners during a conference last year held at Middlesex University School of Law, with generous funding by the British Academy and the Leverhulme Trust. It has also been debated at a recent Westminster Media Forum conference, and the question of how to define TV-like content will be a central theme at the upcoming Media Policy Project conference on the revision of the Audiovisual Services Directive, to be held in Brussels in June 2016.
The Audiovisual Media Services Directive (AVMSD)
The regulation of online videos on newspaper and magazine websites has been a matter of much debate ever since the adoption of the Audiovisual Media Services Directive in 2010. Recital 28 of the Directive states that the scope of this Directive should not cover electronic versions of newspapers and magazines, thereby seeking to completely exclude from its remit audiovisual material made available on the website of a traditional print publication. The press has always vehemently resisted inclusion within the scope of the AVMSD. Most recently, in the context of the latest public consultation in preparation for the Directives modernisation (under the REFIT programme), the European Magazine Media Association (EMMA) and the European Newspaper Publishers Association (ENPA) submitted a joint response which made the following point:
It is important to underline from the outset, that the press sector in Europe, in all its forms, cannot be regulated in the same way as broadcasting and other audiovisual services which are based on state licensing, prior authorisation and supervision of content by authorities, co-regulation and specific, strict commercial communications restrictions. It is therefore essential to preserve press freedom on digital platforms by keeping audivovisual content which is not the principal purpose of the service out of the scope of application of the AVMSD.
The issue is whether such services could reach a tipping point (and therefore fall under the scope of the Directive) if they consisted of a more substantial amount of video content than they do at present (i.e. as opposed to effectively serving as an extra to predominantly text and picture-based news content).
Case study: Case C-347/14
New Media Online GmbH
One much-awaited ruling by the European Court of Justice (ECJ) has finally provided some clarity as regards the scope of the Directive. The case concerned the Tiroler Tageszeitung, one of the most important regional daily newspapers in Austria. The Tiroler Tageszeitung operated a website, which contained a separate video section. In 2012, the Austrian Communications Authority (Kommunikationsbehrde Austria), the regulatory authority for broadcasting in Austria, ruled that the video section on the newspapers website constituted an on-demand audiovisual media service that was accordingly subject to the Audiovisual Media Services Directive. The newspaper argued that the videos were merely a secondary element of the overall website, complementing its text-based offering. Moreover, the videos in question were not TV-like, in view of their short duration. The distinction between these two positions is key to understanding whether or not the Directive can be said to apply to content of this sort.
In 2014, Austrias Supreme Administrative Court referred the questions raised by this case to the ECJ. In his Opinion on the case, Advocate General Szpunar rejected a broad interpretation of the AVMS to encompass video sections of a newspaper website on the basis that this would unduly restrict the freedom of the internet and be prone to circumvention. Two of the speakers at the Middlesex University conference
Michael Kogler from the Austrian Federal Chancellery, Department for Media Law and Jenny Metzdorf from the University of Luxembourg
discussed Szpunars Opinion. Kogler argued that had the Advocate General focused on the issue of TV-like, the videos in question would have passed the comparability test. Metzdorf criticised Recital 28 of the Directive as outdated, and said that Szpunars argument did not chime with the reality of media convergence. Indeed, in its ensuing decision, the ECJ declined to follow the Advocate General. It held, first, that short videos housed within a subdomain of a newspaper website (i.e. a discrete, stand-alone area) are comparable to television broadcasting; and, secondly, that Recital 28 should not be interpreted as excluding video sections eo ipso from the Directives scope if they are embedded within a website operated by a publishing company. The Austrian Administrative Court followed the ECJs ruling and decided on 16 December 2015 that the video offering in question had to be classified as an AVMS.
Electronic press regulation: the regulators response
The uncertainty surrounding the interpretation of Recital 28 of the AVMSD has troubled regulators in a number of EU jurisdictions for quite some time. The regulators of Denmark, the Flemish Community of Belgium, Slovakia, Sweden and Austria have qualified such services as AVMS. Other regulators such as the Dutch Commissariaat voor de Media have faced considerable resistance from the Dutch newspaper industry against the classification of their video sites as on-demand services. The UK communications regulator, Ofcom, quashed a determination of its now defunct co-regulator, the Authority for Television on Demand (ATVOD), that the video section of The Sun newspaper website constituted an on-demand programme service. Although regulators claim to be objective in their application of the statutory framework, they are informed by unavowedly ideological assumptions with some favouring freedom for the electronic press from government regulation, whilst others favour greater control. Less emphasis on technical details and greater openness about the underlying rationales would facilitate a more principled policy debate about the future media framework.
What next? Implications for the future AVMSD framework
As things stand, the current AVMSD only pays lip service to the principle of technological neutrality, as it effectively abandons neutrality by espousing graduated regulation for linear and non-linear services and excludes a swathe of old and new media content providers from its scope. The New Media Online judgement calls for a reconsideration of the antiquated concept of TV-like against the backdrop of the increased consumption of short-form content via a variety of devices, convergence between television and the internet, and the demise of the formers special status. Some academics have criticised the inconsistencies and the haphazardness of the current regulatory system, and argued in favour of its replacement by a new system that would not be based on the accidents of delivery, but rather would be based on content type
see here and here for more information.
A new Content Directive, based on a comprehensive notion of media is desirable, but will the EU have the resolve to adopt it?
Irina KatsireaThis article originally appeared on LSE's Media Policy Project Blog and is republished with permission.
(Image source)
NOTE: The opinions expressed in this article or in the referred content do not necessarily represent those of WAN-IFRA.
Tags
press regulation
Author
Teemu Henriksson
Date
2016-04-28 17:07
Add new comment
Bookmark/Search this post
Twitter
Facebook
Google
LinkedIn
Yahoo
Xing
WAN-IFRA Search
Media Policy
The news publishing industry is experiencing transformation at an ever-growing pace, with new policy issues arising as the landscape changes.
We will be examining policy discussions that will define the news publishing environment of the future, the key topics being internet governance, privacy and copyright. To learn more about our work visit www.wan-ifra.org/policy
Tags
advertising
analysis
audience engagement
business models
daily newspaper
digital media
freedom of speech
innovation
internet
investigative journalism
journalism
mobile
mobile publishing
newspapers
newspapers and democracy
online journalism
paid online content
paywalls
press freedom
safety of journalists
social media
tablets
World Editors Forum
World Newspaper Congress
World Publishing Expo
more tags
2016 WAN-IFRA - World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers
Footer Navigation
Home
Imprint
Privacy Policy
Login