Subscribe
Sign In
Register
Home
Subscribe
Buy E-N Merchandise
Contact Us
About Us
Advertise With Us
Subscriber Services
Place a Classified Ad
Privacy Policy
Site Terms of Use
Newsletters & Text Alerts
Find a Business in S.A.
News Archives
Brackenridge junior catcher feels a calling to the military,
Today in S.A. history
Community briefs - Southside Reporter
Holy Cross takes control early to secure 4-4A title
Local
News by Neighborhood
Texas
Obituaries
Traffic
Weather
Lake and River Levels
S.A. History
Guide to San Antonio
San Antonio Charity
Breaking News Video
Classifieds
Freshmans heroics propel Southwest past bi-district round
Sam Houston boys capture Region IV-5A track championship
Brackenridge junior catcher feels a calling to the military,
Today in S.A. history
US & World
Breaking News Anywhere
Border & Mexico
US
World
Health Care
Politics
Military
Track Flights
Strange News
Anti-abortion activist goes to trial over letter to doctor
Teacher sick-outs close most Detroit schools for a 2nd day
10 Things to Know for Today
Funeral will honor 6 of 8 victims in Ohio family shootings
Business
Local
Eagle Ford & Energy
National & International
Automotive News
Top Workplaces in S.A.
Technology
Business Features
Finance Features
Business Careers
Tech Features
Press Releases
From new to old, some of the gun safety features over time
Pioneer Energy Services books a $27.7 million loss, but beats
Appeals court rules against borrowers
The Wonder Woman and other power poses to raise your confidence
Sports
San Antonio Spurs
NBA
NFL
MLB
Soccer
Colleges
College Football
College Basketball
High Schools
High School Football
High School Basketball
Postgame Wrap: No call, but Spurs make no excuses in Game 2 loss
Postgame Wrap: No call, but Spurs make no excuses in Game 2 loss
Wild Spurs finish features botched officials' call, fan grabbing
Golf: Mondays high school results
Food
Restaurants
Food Voted Best in S.A.
Recipes & Cooking
Bars & Drinks
Snacks and Entertaining
Guide to Food in S.A.
Sponsored: Sip, Savor, Celebrate
San Antonio chef to cook at the White House for Cinco de Mayo
A James Beard award for S.A.? Wait until next year
Bohanan's bartender wins Patrn's Margarita of the Year contest
San Antonio chocolatier in final four of Spring Baking Challenge
Entertainment
What S.A. is Watching
Things To Do
Fiesta 2016
Rodeo 2016
Celebrity Buzz
Comics
Puzzles
Horoscope
Movies & TV
Music & Stage
Arts & Culture
Guide to San Antonio
Readers' Choice
Photos at S.A. Parties
Destinations
Ashley Sawyer, Catfish Alum, Dies at 23
Tobin announces theater, dance seasons
SA arts groups prep Big Give programming
13 things (besides the Spurs) to know about in San Antonio this
Lifestyle
Wedding Announcements
Bridal Ideas
Travel & Outdoors
Destinations
Health & Family
Senior Living
Home & Garden
Home Decorating
Trends & Style
Beauty and Fitness Tips
Better Living Tips
Gift Ideas
Pets
Green Living
'Millie the dumpster dog' is healing in foster care, Facebook
12 stylish rental cabins in Texas perfect for summer vacation
Who controls your medical and financial decisions when you're
The Legacy at Longue Vue
Opinion
Editorials
Commentary
Letters to the Editor
Columnists
Third & Ave. E
Editorial Cartoons
Josh Brodesky
Robert Seltzer
O. Ricardo Pimentel
Bruce Davidson
Maria Anglin
Gloria Padilla
Fiorina a smart choice for Cruz
GOP, millenials not seeing eye to eye
Lets look beyond Trump to those in pain
Your Turn: May 3
Cars
Car Tips and Help
News & Reviews
Vehicle Search
Car Features
Latest Car Reviews
VWs Passat sedan gets updated for 2016, bringing styling
Nissan Murano crossover returns for 2016 after getting a complete
Cadillac rolls out the all-new CT6 sedan, and one couple gets
Jobs
Salary Wizard
Top Workplaces
Career Features
Proposed rule would delay questions about criminal history
US consumer spending inches up in March
US economy struggles at start of election year
Homes
Home Search
Apartment Search
Land
Rentals
Open Houses
New Homes Search
Hill Country Living
New Construction
Real Estate Tips
Home Yard Tips
Home DIY
Kitchen, Bed and Bath
Home Decorating
Austin cliff-side mansion with granite bathtub hits market for
The 9 most expensive homes on the market in San Antonio
San Antonio architecture firm Lake | Flato honored again for this
Local developer amasses land along Broadway near The Pearl
Find&Save
MenuSections
http://www.mysanantonio.com/business/fool/article/Warm-Weather-Continues-to-Cool-Off-UGI-Corp-s-7389700.php
Warm Weather Continues to Cool Off UGI Corp.'s Earnings
Matthew DiLallo, The Motley Fool
Published 6:30am, Tuesday, May 3, 2016
Diversified utility UGI's growth continues to be held back by warm winter weather. That's clear after the company's fiscal second-quarter earnings were basically in line with the year-ago quarter, despite the company's completion of several growth initiatives over the past year. It's now causing the company to cool off its expectations for fiscal 2016.
UGI results: The raw numbers
Metric
FQ2 2016 Actuals
FQ2 2015 Actuals
Growth (YOY)
Adjusted net income
$216.2 million
$220.8 million
(2.1%)
Adjusted EPS
$1.24
$1.26
(1.6%)
Data source: UGI Corporation.
What happened with UGI this quarter? The weather again had a noticeable impact on UGI's business segments this quarter:
Image source: Flickr user Mike Mozart.
The company's AmeriGas Propane
subsidiary was once again hurt by warmer weather, with temperatures 11.7% warmer than normal and 13.3% warmer than last year. That caused a 13.9% decrease in retail gallons sold, leading to a 24.8% year-over-year decline in revenue and a 15.7% slump in operating income. That drop comes even as AmeriGas Propane continues to add customers through acquisitions and in its National Accounts and Cylinder Exchange programs.
The UGI Utilities segment was also hurt by warmer weather, with temperatures 10% warmer than normal and 24% higher than the prior year in its service territory. This development pushed revenue down 35.7% and operating income down by 19.8%.
Keeping with the weather theme, UGI's midstream and marketing segment was also negatively affected by the weather, which was 25% warmer than the prior year and 12% warmer than normal in its operating areas, causing lower volumes. That increase pushed operating income down by 21.5% from the prior period.
UGI's International segment was the lone highlight, delivering an 11.3% jump in revenue, while operating income surged 72.3%. This growth was primarily due to the company's Finagaz acquisition, which helped the company overcome the warmer-than-normal weather.
What management had to say CEO John Walsh,commenting on the company's results, said:
This was a solid quarter as our business delivered earnings that were in line with the prior year despite significantly warmer weather. Temperatures in our gas utility and midstream and marketing service territories were approximately 25% warmer than the prior year, while our AmeriGas and UGI France businesses also experienced significantly warmer temperatures. Our adjusted results of $1.24 per share are a testament to the highly accretive investments we have made over the past few years, including the Finagaz acquisition, LNG expansion, the Auburn gathering system, and AmeriGas acquisitions.
Walsh notes that given the negative impact from the weather, the company delivered a pretty solid quarter because it was able to keep its earnings roughly in line with the prior period. It was a feat the company credits to its ability to complete several strategic investments over the past year.
Looking forward Given the impact the weather has had on the company thus far in fiscal 2016, UGI is revising its full-year guidance. It now expects adjusted earnings to be in a range of $1.95 to $2.05 per share, down from its prior guidance of $2.15 to $2.30 per share. That will basically mean three straight years of stagnant growth after the company delivered earnings of $2.01 and $2.02 per share over the prior two years.
Yet the company is optimistic that things will turn around in fiscal 2017, with Walsh noting, "Our solid performance during this challenging winter, and our continued progress on major new investments positions us well for fiscal year 2017 and beyond." Of course, that assumes the weather starts to cooperate, which is something it hasn't done much of lately.
A secret billion-dollar stock opportunity The world's biggest tech company forgot to show you something, but a few Wall Street analysts and the Fool didn't miss a beat: There's a small company that's powering their brand-new gadgets and the coming revolution in technology. And we think its stock price has nearly unlimited room to run for early in-the-know investors! To be one of them, just click here.
The article Warm Weather Continues to Cool Off UGI Corp.'s Earnings originally appeared on Fool.com.
Matt DiLallo has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool owns shares of and recommends UGI. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.Copyright
1995 - 2016 The Motley Fool, LLC.
All rights reserved. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Latest Business News
Does This Upstart Pose a Threat to GlaxoSmithKline?
Better Buy Now: Nike, Under Armour, or Lululemon?
The Weak Oil Market Continues to Batter MRC Global Inc.'s...
Airline Earnings Look Great on Paper, Thanks to Oil
Forget Bluebird Bio, Inc.: These 3 Stocks Are Better Buys
Why Twitter Inc. Stock Dropped 11.7% in April
1 Fast-Growing Energy Dividend Stock Not Being Hurt by Oil...
6 Must-Read Quotes from Microsoft's Earnings Call
Warm Weather Continues to Cool Off UGI Corp.'s Earnings
Value Investing in Spring: 3 Stocks to Put on Your Radar in May
Ready for Medicare? Not Until You Read This
For Interactive Intelligence, the Future Gets Cloudier
4 Things You May Be Surprised to Learn Costco Sells
This is Why 2015 Was So Great for NVIDIA Stock
Apple Watch: A First-Year Win, but What About the Long Term?
Business Videos
Stay Connected
Most Popular
1
Sheriff: California mother connected to 'horrific' child abuse...
2
Sheriff: 8 children rescued, woman arrested after 'horrific'...
3
Thank you for subscribing
4
Texas teen ejected from carnival ride to her death at El Paso...
5
These were the 30 highest paying jobs in the San Antonio area...
6
Young fan traveled 3 hours to meet the San Antonio Spurs for...
7
Warrant: Slain pregnant Texas teen found with uterus removed
View Comments
2016 Hearst Communications, Inc.
Logo
Return to Top
About
Corporate Home
Careers
Advertising
Ad Choices
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights
Contact
FAQ
Newsroom Contacts
Purchase Photos
Place a Classified Ad
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Instagram
Subscribe
San Antonio Express-News
ExpressNews.com
iPad app
eEdition
Search Our News Archive
Manage Your Subscription
Hearst Newspapers
Copyright Hearst Newspapers, LLC