Skip to main content
Skip to Content
Toggle Search
Search
Toggle Main Menu
About
Academic Units
Annual Report
Athena SWAN
Catering
Contact Details
Events
Financial Statements
Governance
Job Vacancies
Maps & Directions
Press Office
Key Dates
Vision 2021
Research
Research Centres
Research Facilities
Research Impact
Research Institutes
Societal Challenges
Study
Undergraduate Study
A-Z Degrees
Fees & Finance
How to Apply
Open Day
Careers
& Employability
City Life
Student Life
Postgraduate Study
Search Courses
Funding
Careers
Student Life
How to Apply
Meet Us
Our Campuses
Newcastle City Centre Campus
Campus for Ageing and Vitality
Newcastle International Centre for Life
Newcastle University London
NUMed Malaysia
Newcastle University International Singapore
Online & Distance Learning
Continuing Professional Development (CPD)
Student Services
Information for Parents & Carers
Information for Schools & Colleges
Accommodation
International
International Study
Your Country
English Language Requirements
Visa and Immigration
Study Abroad & Exchanges
Study Abroad at Newcastle
Go Abroad for Current Students
International Relations
International Partnerships
Impact Case Studies
International Campuses
NUMed Malaysia
Newcastle University International Singapore
Engage
Alumni & Supporters
Services for Business
Procurement
Conferences
Contact Us
Staff & Students
Staff Homepage
People Search
Student Homepage
Student Services
Student Wellbeing
Student Progress
Examinations
Careers
Computing (NUIT)
Library
Sport
Accommodation
Congregations
Students' Union
Paying Accommodation & Tuition Fees
Replacement Degree Certificates
Press Office
Newcastle University > Press Office > Latest News
Top
comment: gifted children Africa untapped resource
Comment: Africas gifted children are a precious and untapped resource
Published on: 3 May 2016
Writing for The Conversation, Steve Humble discusses how identifying gifted children in poor areas of sub-Saharan Africa's cities could hold the key to alleviating poverty.
Steve Humble
Steve Humble, Newcastle University
We all know that it doesnt matter whether youre rich or poor. You can still be gifted. Opportunity is the key. Through opportunity you can overcome difficulty and reach your full potential. But is this true in the developing world?
Over a number of years a team at Newcastle University has been searching for the most appropriate ways to identify children in poor areas of sub-Saharan Africas cities who, given the opportunity and additional support, could become catalysts of social change through influencing their peers and communities. If children from very poor areas are to be given a chance to contribute to their societies, and thus to economic development and growth, then identifying these possible life changers could be key.
Economic growth is necessary for development. But growth is very reliant on the cognitive skills of the population. This is why human capital is key to a nations success. For Nobel Laureate Gary Becker, the modern era is the age of human capital. For Eric Hanushek and Ludger Woessman,
school policy can, if effective in raising cognitive skills, be an important force in economic development.
For countries to benefit from exceptional human capital the current state of education worldwide needs to be improved. But the focus needs to be on quality, not quantity. This is because quality schooling is what encourages knowledge and cognitive skills that stimulate economic growth.
Why identifying giftedness is important
It is generally agreed that the identification of giftedness should be led by multiple methods, informants and criteria. But with different ideas about what the term means and its measurement, how does one go about identifying children in places such as poor areas of Africas cities who could contribute to their nations development if given the opportunity?
The research from Newcastle University used a combination of ideas from some of the main exponents in gifted education and multiple intelligences. These included Renzullis three ring concept,
Sternbergs triarchic theory of intelligence and Gardners multiple intelligences.
The research project took place in 17 government school in a very poor area of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. Teachers and parents were interviewed. More than 1,800 children sat tests (including mathematics, Kiswahili, reading and a non-verbal matrix reasoning test) and children and teachers nominated three gifted children in their class. The teachers provided reasons why theyd made their choices.
Children taking a test in a government secondary school in Dar es Salaam.
Steve Humble
Children identified as gifted
gaining a very high score and nominated by at least one other method
had their creativity, motivation and commitment investigated. The results indicate that some of the cleverest, most creative and
committed children you are ever likely to meet live in these slum areas.
It may seem obvious. Yet some believe that children who are first-generation learners with illiterate parents are simply not capable of greatness. This became evident at the beginning of the research. When the team explained what the research was about, teachers as well as district education officers said:
Why the slums of Dar es Salaam? You wont find any gifted children there.
When told his daughter had performed really well in all the tasks one parent shook his head in disbelief and said:
She cant be gifted. We are poor. Only the rich are gifted.
An untapped resource
Too few development experts believe that part of the solution to poverty can come from the poor themselves. Yet in the slums of Dar es Salaam children of high ability wait to be discovered, their contribution to economic growth and development wasted because no-one believes they are there. Children dont know what they can achieve.
Here lies an untapped resource. Sadly, most of the head teachers reported that the primary school children under their care would not attend government secondary schools. In general, they believed the children would become market sellers and petty traders, just like their parents.
International aid has been flowing into Africa for the past 50 years. Donors from around the world give government schools
including those in Tanzania
desks, chairs, books and other resources. The belief is that all children will benefit. So let that continue.
But how about a small amount of funding heading the way of those children who can be identified as life changers with the tenacity, determination and ability to make a difference for their own countries.
An overview of our research can be seen in the TEDx Newcastle video Slum Super Stars
African talented children alleviating poverty.
Steve Humble, Mathematics Education Primary and Secondary PGCE, Newcastle University
This article was originally published on The Conversation. Read the original article.
Share:
Latest News
Comment: Africas gifted children are a precious and untapped resource
Writing for The Conversation, Steve Humble discusses how identifying gifted children in poor areas of sub-Saharan Africa's cities could hold the key to alleviating poverty.
published on: 3 May 2016
Newcastle helping to shape future of cities at home and overseas
Work by University experts to help shape the future of Newcastle has been featured in an influential new document for policymakers.
published on: 29 April 2016
Leading biochemist recognised with double Fellowship
Professor Harry Gilbert joins the most eminent scientists and technologists in the country with the award of two fellowships in the same week.
published on: 29 April 2016
Facts and figures
Find an expert
Latest News
News Archive
Find an ExpertIn The MediaAbout Us
Site map
Newcastle University, NE1 7RU, United Kingdom, Telephone: (0191) 208 6000 From outside the UK dial +44 191 208 6000
Email web editor
Connect with us
Twitter
Facebook
YouTube
Social media directory
University site index
Accessibility
Legal
Freedom of information
Photography Credits
You're looking at a section of our new website. Let us know what you think. Send us your feedback
Last updated 3 May 2016
Newcastle University