+1-518-618-1030
866 - 552 - 3453
USA-Canada Toll Free
Menu
Research Categories
Medical Devices
Technology & Media
Chemical & Materials
Pharmaceutical
Food & Beverages
Energy & Mining
Consumer Goods
Semiconductor & Electronics
Biotechnology
Healthcare IT
Metals & Minerals
Defense & Aeronautics
Packaging
View All Categories
Blog
Articles
Press Releases
About Us
Services
Syndicated Research
Custom Research
Consulting Services
Contact Us
Making Critical Decisions. Effortless.
Advance Search
Home
Press Releases
Global Automatic Number Plate Recognition Market to Reach US$1.4 bn by 2023 as Improved Traffic Management Becomes Necessity
Global Automatic Number Plate Recognition Market to Reach US$1.4 bn by 2023 as Improved Traffic Management Becomes Necessity
Posted on May 03, 2016
Transparency Market Research has published a new report on the global automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) market. As per the report, the global automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) market is expected to progress from US$0.47 bn in 2014 to US$1.4 bn by 2023. The report, titled Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) Market- Global Industry Analysis, Size, Share, Growth, Trends and Forecast 2015 - 2023, states that the global market is expected to expand at a 12.80% CAGR during the period between 2015 and 2023. This growth is attributable to the increasing adoption of ANPR for better traffic rules enforcement.
Browse the fullAutomatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) Market (Security and Surveillance, Vehicle Parking, Traffic Management, Toll Enforcement) - Global Industry Analysis, Size, Share, Growth, Trends and Forecast 2015 - 2023report athttp://www.transparencymarketresearch.com/automatic-number-plate-recognition.html?
An automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) system reads the number plates of a passing vehicle to note every character present on the number plate; the system then converts this data into a digital format. The final information in the digital format can then be used for many applications. The data collected through ANPR systems is compared with the vehicle database available with various law enforcement units such as the Police National Road Agency and the Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency. ANPR systems comprise elements such as high-speed cameras with processors, IR filters capable of performing optical character recognition, application software, an alert capacity, and a user interface.
ANPR systems are used by traffic regulation authorities and governments for traffic enforcement. However, the increasing usage of ANPR systems in the commercial sector is expected to propel the global automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) market in the years to come. The global automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) market is segmented on the basis of geography, application, and end-user. By geography, the global automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) market is divided into the Middle East and Africa, Asia Pacific, Latin America, Europe, and North America. In 2014, Europe led the global ANPR market due to the high penetration rate of ANPR systems in various applications across the region.
The increasing demand for superior security, especially in the public sector has benefited the global automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) market in the recent past. Going forward, the market for ANPR is expected to be benefitted by the economic growth of emerging markets, especially in the Asia Pacific region. Also, the increasing adoption of tolling applications and parking management is predicted to create new growth opportunities in the global automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) market. However, concerns relating to intrusion on the privacy of people and non-uniformity in license plate design are predicted to hamper the growth of the global automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) market in the years to come.
By end-user, the global automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) market is classified into commercial and government. In 2014, the government sector held a massive share of 76% in the global ANPR market.
Vehicle parking, traffic management, toll enforcement, and security and surveillance are some of the applications of ANPR systems. Currently, the global ANPR market is dominated by the vehicle parking application segment.
The global ANPR market is highly fragmented and leading players are taking efforts to capitalize on the growth opportunities in niche markets. Some of the prominent players in the global automatic number plate recognition (ANPR) market are ARH Inc., ELSAG North America LLC, Q-Free ASA, Siemens AG, Genetec, Inc., CA Traffic Limited, Quercus Technologies, Vysionics Intelligent Traffic Solutions Ltd., and others.
Key Segments of Global Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) Market
Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) Market, by Applications:
Security and Surveillance
Vehicle Parking
Traffic Management
Red Light Control
Toll Enforcement
Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) Market, by End-user:
Government
Homeland Security
Traffic Department
Defense
Commercial
Entertainment and Recreation Facilities (Shopping Centers, Multiplexes and Others)
Dedicated Car Parks
Automatic Number Plate Recognition (ANPR) Market, by Geography:
North America
Europe
Asia-Pacific
Middle East & Africa (MEA)
Latin America
About Us
Transparency Market Research (TMR) is a global market intelligence company providing business information reports and services. The companys exclusive blend of quantitative forecasting and trend analysis provides forward-looking insight for thousands of decision makers. TMRs experienced team of analysts, researchers, and consultants use proprietary data sources and various tools and techniques to gather and analyze information.
TMRs data repository is continuously updated and revised by a team of research experts so that it always reflects the latest trends and information. With extensive research and analysis capabilities, Transparency Market Research employs rigorous primary and secondary research techniques to develop distinctive data sets and research material for business reports.
Contact
Mr.Sudip S
90 State Street, Suite 700
Albany, NY 12207
Tel: +1-518-618-1030
USA - Canada Toll Free: 866-552-3453
Email:sales@transparencymarketresearch.com
Website: http://www.transparencymarketresearch.com
Related Report
Financial Services Market - Global Industry Analysis, Size, Share, Growth, Trends and Forecast 2016 - 2024
Global Financial Services Market: Overview
Efficiency in financial services is considered to be the backbone of any economy. Financial services indicate the socio-economic wellbeing of any country. With rapid globalization, financial service application providers are fac...
Self-service Technology Market - Global Industry Analysis, Size, Share, Growth, Trends, and Forecast 2016 - 2023
Global Self-service Technologies Market: Overview
Self-service technologies are a wide range of technologies that allow individuals to carry out various transactions without the involvement of an actual sales representative. The increasing R&D in automation, remote ma...
Security Analytics Market - Global Industry Analysis, Size, Share, Growth, Trends, and Forecast 2016 - 2024
Global Security Analytics Market: Overview
Security analytics tools refer to a variety of security event data collection, filtering, integrating, and linking tools that provide a detailed overview of the security of an organizations digital infrastructure. Principl...
About Us
Career
Methodology
How to order
Delivery Method
FAQs
Research Categories
Latest
Upcoming
Services
Conferences
Sitemap
Return Policy
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
Connect Us
Twitter
Follow TMR's Twitter feed for the latest market developments and analysis
Facebook
Like TMR's page for updates on published and upcoming market research reports
LinkedIn
Gain access to TMR's expert insights and thought leadership posts
Google+
Follow TMR for the latest updates from our research experts
Copyright
Transparency Market Research. All Rights Reserved
Advance Search
Search For :
Report Type :
All
Upcoming
Published
Category :
Select A Category
Pharmaceutical
Chemical & Materials
Energy & Mining
Food & Beverages
Semiconductor & Electronics
Medical Devices
Consumer Goods
Technology & Media
Biotechnology
Healthcare IT
Metals and Minerals
Defense and Aeronautics