My Account
Stay Connected @49ers
Podcast E-Mail Instagram Twitter FacebookFlickr
News
Video
Photos
Roster
Schedule
Tickets
Stadium
Shop
More
Loading...
Loading...
Loading...
Loading...
Loading...
Loading...
Loading...
Loading...
Loading...
Popular
49ers Pinterest
Niners 365
49ers Youtube
Up Next
Next
There are no Events to display in this category.
Prev
View More Events
Show More
Close
On Now
Coming Up
There are no Events to display in this category.
View More Events
News & Events
Share
Facebook
Twitter
StumbleUpon
Digg
Reddit
Delicious
Diigo
Link
URL:
Print
Email
* Required field
Allow up to 5 recipients
Recipient Email *
Send up to 5 emails, separate emails with a comma
Sender Email *
RSS
Whitners Blog: Sunday Night Football
Posted Sep 14, 2012
Donte Whitner
Hard-Hitting Journalist
@DonteWhitner
Players Only Blog
a
a
Donte Whitner emerged as a leader of the 49ers secondary in 2011 during his first season in San Francisco. A man who takes pride in his mental side of the game, Whitner has also established himself as one of the leagues hardest-hitting safeties throughout his career. The veteran recently spoke with 49ers.com ahead of the teams Week 2 matchup with the Detroit Lions.Yesterday I had to wait to get some reps catching balls from the Jugs machine after practice because there were so many players using it. Having guys in our secondary catching deep balls to try to get that same look you get in the football game is a really good thing. Guys like Vernon Davis, Delanie Walker, Garrett Celek are always going over to the Jugs machine to put in extra work because they want to be great. It shows what kind of team we have. I need to get on the Jugs machine myself after dropping that pick in the fourth quarter last week. The ball was coming really fast, but still its no excuse not to catch the football. I actually dropped an interception three years ago up in Green Bay on the goal line. I had a chance to take it 99 yards. It was coming extremely fast, too. I told myself going into this game that I would have my opportunity to put my hands on the ball and that I was going to look it all the way in and then return it. The same thing ended up happening again. Aaron Rodgers has crazy velocity on that football when he throws it especially when youre about 15-yards from him. Its still no excuse so I have to continue to work on catching the ball.Win, lose or draw theres a 24-hour rule that comes with thinking about the last game. That was the case this week. You have to get over it and get ready for the next game immediately. Its professional sports and this is a very humbling game. If you go out there thinking youve arrived this game can quickly humble you. We understand that, and thats why we work like we do. Im looking forward to the home opener. I know that the fans want to see us after we went to Lambeau Field and won that football game. To have our first home game be nationally-televised under the lights of Candlestick is going to be special. The crowd is going to be electric, and thats how we are going to need them to be. We are going to need them to be that 12th man. We want the crowd to be really loud and take care of their responsibilities. We want to get some false starts on their offense and hopefully that will propel us through the football game to a big win.We have a veteran group, a poised group that understands we have to do the small things. We have to execute the small details in order to go out there and compete. Last week we were able to take a good MVP quarterback off his game. This week is not going to be any different with Matthew Stafford coming in here. He has a strong arm and weapons all around the football field. He wants to get it down the field to Calvin Johnson so its not going to be easy. With our secondary and our defense as a whole, we feel like we are going to be ready for the task. This weekend Ohio State, my alma mater, is taking on Cal. Its nice to see the Buckeyes facing a Bay Area team because when I was there we didnt play any California teams. It has been pretty exciting since Urban Meyer has got there, and the team has looked really good. I will try to tune into that football game as much as possible and hopefully my guys will win.I wanted to switch things up in my blog going forward.First, I want to have fans send questions in for me to talk about on this blog. Fans can send questions on Twitter using the hashtag #AskDonteWhitner. I think the best way to do it is to open it up and allow fans to ask anything they want to. Next week we will pick a few questions and I will answer them in this blog.Second, Im introducing Donte Whitners Instagram photo of the week.For my Instagram of the Week, I picked this picture showing some of the guys on the charter headed to Green Bay. We have a bunch of guys watching a little extra film and listening to music. They are getting their minds right before we go to play. Theres a bunch of key guys in the picture too. You see Aldon Smith, Justin Smith and Andy Lee among others. You also have a piece of my Ohio State Buckeyes hat in there. We were headed to invade Green Bay as my caption said.
Take the 49ers with You
Download the official mobile app of the San Francisco 49ers.
Featured
NFL Draft Preview with Will Brinson of CBS Sports
Catching up with 49ers WR Torrey Smith
Listen to Jarryd Hayne on 49ers Radio Podcast
More Videos
San Francisco 49ers Players Volunteer at Convoy of Hope Community Event
Among the players who participated in the outreach program were Vance McDonald, Eric Reid, Jarryd Hayne, Jerome Simpson and more.
Meet the Prospect: Michigan State OT Jack Conklin
As 49ers.com runs down the list of top prospects in the 2016 NFL Draft, we continue our Meet the Prospect series with an offensive lineman who is climbing up draft boards, Michigan State tackle Jack Conklin.
2016 NFL.com Mock Draft: 49ers No. 7
NFL Media's Steve Mariucci selects Ronnie Stanley for the San Francisco 49ers with the seventh overall pick of NFL's mock draft.
Jerry Rice Makes Mock First-round Pick for 49ers
Find out which player the Hall of Fame wide receiver would like to see the San Francisco 49ers select at No. 7 overall when the 2016 NFL Draft kicks off on Thursday night.
Latest Headlines
San Francisco 49ers Players Volunteer at Convoy of Hope Community Event
San Francisco 49ers Mock Draft Monday 7.0
Meet the Prospect: Michigan State OT Jack Conklin
Meet the Prospect: Alabama RB Derrick Henry
Meet the Prospect: Ohio State WR Braxton Miller
ESPN's Jon Gruden Analyzes 2016 QB Draft Class
More News
Featured Gallery
San Francisco 49ers Continue Offseason Practice
Take a look at the top images from the San Francisco 49ers recent on-field work in phase two of the offseason program.
Most Read
GM Trent Baalke Provides Pre-draft Updates on 49ers Roster
Trent Baalke Details How Recent Trades Impact 49ers Draft Options
San Francisco 49ers Mock Draft Monday 6.0
ESPN's Jon Gruden Analyzes 2016 QB Draft Class
49ers-related Takeaways from Mel Kiper's Pre-NFL Draft Conference Call
San Francisco 49ers Mock Draft Monday 7.0
49ers GM Trent Baalke Details Draft Philosophies on Evaluating Character and Injury History
San Francisco 49ers 2016 Schedule Announced
Things You (Probably) Should Know about 49ers DB Jimmie Ward
Subscribe
More Headlines
Visit San Francisco's profile on Pinterest.
Photo Galleries
San Francisco 49ers Continue Offseason Practice
San Francisco 49ers Begin Phase 2 of Offseason Program
Week 2 of 49ers Offseason Program Begins
San Francisco 49ers Hold 2016 Local Pro Day
Top Photos of 2016 Gold Rush Squad
The Best of 49ers DB Jimmie Ward
2016 Forty Niners Football Company LLC
49ers.com:NewsVideoPhotosRosterScheduleTicketsShopTeamMediaGamedayFans OnlyCommunityGold RushContact:Contact UsPrivacy PolicyEmploymentTerms & ConditionsMore Sites:NFL.com Levi's StadiumFaithful 49 Presented by Esurance
No portion of this site may be reproduced without the express written permission of The San Francisco 49ers.
NFL.com
NFLRush.com
NFLPlayers.com
NFL Ticket Exchange
NFL Youth Tackle
Profootballhof.com
NFL Shop
NFL Auction
NFL Network
NFL On Location
In The Community
NFLHealthandSafety.com
Bills
Dolphins
Patriots
Jets
Ravens
Bengals
Browns
Steelers
Texans
Colts
Jaguars
Titans
Broncos
Chiefs
Raiders
Chargers
Cowboys
Giants
Eagles
Redskins
Bears
Lions
Packers
Vikings
Falcons
Panthers
Saints
Buccaneers
Cardinals
Rams
49ers
Seahawks