Sections
News Morning Show Politics Weather Traffic Seen on TV Contact Us Contests Dr. Oz TV Listings Events Video Live Newscasts & Replays News Now - Live & Replays Newsmaker Sunday Sports Mug Shots About Us FOX 10 Apps Work for Us My45
65&deg
2000-2015 Fox Television Stations, Inc. All Rights Reserved.Privacy Policy Terms of Service Ad Choices
US & World News
PoliticsLive Newscasts & ReplaysNews Now Live & ReplaysTrending TopicsVideoArizona NewsFOX 10 AppsThe Americans with Charlie LeDuff
News
Morning Show
Politics
Weather
Traffic
Seen on TV
Contact Us
Contests
Dr. Oz
TV Listings
Events
Video
Live Newscasts & Replays
News Now - Live & Replays
Newsmaker Sunday
Sports
Mug Shots
About Us
FOX 10 Apps
Work for Us
My45
Videos
Finding Faith: Jim McGreevey
Police: Woman shot at west Phoenix apartment
Rockwall to vote on bathroom gender ordinance
Photos
Tupac Shakur's mother dies
Police investigating shooting in Tempe
US service member killed in northern Iraq
2000-2015 Fox Television Stations, Inc. All Rights Reserved.Privacy Policy Terms of Service Ad Choices
FOX 10 Live Newscasts & Replays - Click here to watch!
Good Samaritan trying to stop gunman shot dead at Arlington Walgreens
Police say a Good Samaritan was shot and killed outside an Arlington Walgreens trying to protect a woman who had just been shot by her husband.
By: FOX4News.com Staff
Posted:May 02 2016 10:28AM MST Updated:May 03 2016 04:14AM MST
Good Samaritan trying to stop gunman shot dead at Arlington Walgreens
[] Hide Caption [] Show Caption T.J. Antell was shot dead trying to stop a gunman at an Arlington Walgreens.
[] Hide Caption [] Show Caption Arlington Walgreens shooting suspect Ricci Bradden.
US & World News 1 dead in shooting at Arlington Walgreens Police say a Good Samaritan was shot and killed outside an Arlington Walgreens trying to protect a woman who had just been shot by her husband.
Related Stories
US service member killed in northern Iraq Finding Faith: Jim McGreevey's second life CDC investigates after 97 fall sick on Disney ship Student shoots himself at Kimball High School
ARLINGTON, Texas - Police say a Good Samaritan was shot and killed outside an Arlington Walgreens trying to protect a woman who had just been shot by her husband.Police said the shooter, Ricci Bradden, a soldier form Fort Hood, came into the store at the corner of New York Avenue and Green Oaks Boulevard just before noon on Monday to confront his wife.Arlington Police say Bradden pulled out a gun and fired a shot into the ground and then fired another shot into his wifes ankle.As she ran back inside the store, Bradden ran to his car. That's when Good Samaritan T.J. Antell, who had just witnessed the shooting, ran to his car and got his gun.Police say when Antell told Bradden to get out of his car, Bradden quickly got out and fatally shot Antell.Family and friends gathered at the Crossfit Gym in Arlington where the 35-year-old husband and father of three worked."He went into a protective mode, said Antells pastor, Marc Lowrance. He's a father. He is protective by nature. He thought he could help everyone involved and tragically it went a different way."Police say Bradden then started driving toward Fort Hood.The arrest warrant affidavit stated Bradden "called some of his supervising officers in the military and confessed to the shooting.Then, Bradden called his father who told him to stop and wait for him."A family member met with the suspect and took him to a Texas Highway Patrol DPS office in Hill County, explained Arlington Police Chief Christopher Cook.According to the affidavit, Bradden told military supervisors he slapped the gun out of the male's hand and then he shot the male.Friends tell say Antell served some time in the U.S. Marine Corps.
Download the FOX 10 Phoenix News App Now
false false false
false false false
false false false
Popular
false false false
Recent
Police investigating shooting in Tempe
Police: Woman shot at west Phoenix apartment
Mug Shot Gallery - May 2016
Student arrested after indecent yearbook photo
Woman who triggered Sedona-area amber
Stories You May Be Interested In
includes Advertiser Stories
false false false
All content
Copyright 2000-2015 Fox Television Stations, Inc. All Rights Reserved.