Sections
News Morning Show Politics Weather Traffic Seen on TV Contact Us Contests Dr. Oz TV Listings Events Video Live Newscasts & Replays News Now - Live & Replays Newsmaker Sunday Sports Mug Shots About Us FOX 10 Apps Work for Us My45
65&deg
2000-2015 Fox Television Stations, Inc. All Rights Reserved.Privacy Policy Terms of Service Ad Choices
Trending
Arizona NewsUS & WorldVideoLive Newscasts & ReplaysNews Now Live & ReplaysMug ShotsFOX 10 Apps
News
Morning Show
Politics
Weather
Traffic
Seen on TV
Contact Us
Contests
Dr. Oz
TV Listings
Events
Video
Live Newscasts & Replays
News Now - Live & Replays
Newsmaker Sunday
Sports
Mug Shots
About Us
FOX 10 Apps
Work for Us
My45
Videos
Finding Faith: Jim McGreevey
Police: Woman shot at west Phoenix apartment
Rockwall to vote on bathroom gender ordinance
Photos
Tupac Shakur's mother dies
Police investigating shooting in Tempe
US service member killed in northern Iraq
2000-2015 Fox Television Stations, Inc. All Rights Reserved.Privacy Policy Terms of Service Ad Choices
FOX 10 Live Newscasts & Replays - Click here to watch!
Kate Upton announces engagement to Tigers' Justin Verlander
Photo: @KateUpton on Twitter
By: Associated Press
Posted:May 03 2016 04:27AM MST Updated:May 03 2016 05:25AM MST
Related Stories
Tupac Shakur's mother dies Hulk Hogan seeks rematch with Gawker 2 Chainz gets heat over 'veteran' clothing line Provocative image includes cop
NEW YORK (AP)
Kate Upton has announced her engagement to baseball star Justin Verlander.The 23-year-old supermodel and actress took to the red carpet at last night's Met Gala in New York City to show off her ring.She tells E! News that the 33-year-old Detroit Tigers pitcher asked her just before the baseball season started and she's "excited to finally be able to share it with the world."E! reports that Upton and Verlander have been dating for more than three years.As for a date for the nuptials, Upton tells E! they're simply "enjoying the engagement period."
Download the FOX 10 Phoenix News App Now
false false false
false false false
false false false
Popular
false false false
Recent
Finding Faith: Jim McGreevey's second life
CDC investigates after 97 fall sick on Disney ship
1 dead in shooting at Arlington Walgreens
Student shoots himself at Kimball High School
Stories You May Be Interested In
includes Advertiser Stories
false false false
All content
Copyright 2000-2015 Fox Television Stations, Inc. All Rights Reserved.