Mining Technology Market & Customer Insight Log In
Request Demo
About Market & Customer Insight
Jump to page
content Accessibility
News, views and contacts from the global Mining industry
Market & Customer Insight
Log In
Request Demo
About Market & Customer Insight
Home
About UsAdvertise With UsContact UsIndustry WebsitesDigital Magazine
Products & Services
Company A - ZProducts & ServicesPress ReleasesWhite Papers
Company A - Z
Company A - ZProducts & ServicesPress ReleasesWhite Papers
Projects
Industry ProjectsProjects by RegionProjects by CategoryArchived ProjectsProject Gallery
Features
Latest FeaturesFeatures A - ZContributors
Videos
White Papers
News
Latest Industry UpdatesIndustry NewsCompany Press Releases
Events
Advertise With Us
Report Store
Digital Magazine
About Us
Contact Us
Industry Websites
Yancoal places Donaldson coal operation in Australia on care and maintenance
3 May 2016
Yancoal Australia has placed its Donaldson coal operation near the Port of Newcastle on care and maintenance after ceasing mining activities at the Abel underground mine and the starting of new feasibility studies. In March, the company said that operations would be suspended due to ongoing market challenges worldwide. Yancoal's decision to put the operation on care and maintenance comes as the company considers future development of new underground working areas. "Care and maintenance includes the ongoing rehabilitation of the Donaldson site in accordance with existing approvals."The company has redeployed the majority of Donaldson employees to the neighbouring Austar and Ashton underground operations. Yancoal said in a statement: "Care and maintenance includes the ongoing rehabilitation of the Donaldson site in accordance with existing approvals, as well as the management of the site both above and below ground as Yancoal works to consider all options for the potential further mining of the Abel underground." Donaldson's underground Abel mine produces thermal and semi-soft coking coal for blending, exporting through the Port of Newcastle.The mine produced 1.81 million tonnes of ROM coal and 1.34 million tonnes of saleable coal in 2015.The operation consists of Abel and Tasman underground mines, as well as Donaldson open-cut mine.
Related Content
Follow Us:
Related News
Sayona Mining to acquire Authier lithium deposit in Canada
Sayona Mining has signed an agreement to acquire 100% of the Authier...
Yancoal places Donaldson coal operation in Australia on care and maintenance
Yancoal Australia has placed its Donaldson coal operation near the Port...
Canada's gold mining company Goldcorp hacked
Hackers are believed to have accessed a number details about Canadian...
Deals this week: Eldorado Gold Corporation, Pacific North West Capital, Severstal
Eldorado Gold Corporation has reached an agreement to sell its 82%...
Report: Australia's coal production to be hit by falling prices
Coal production is expected to be hit in Australia due to a downturn...
See all news
Follow Us:
Contact us
Advertise with us
Terms and conditions
Privacy
Links
Newsletter sign up
Online magazine sign up
www.mining-technology.com is a product of Kable.
Copyright 2016 Kable, a trading division of Kable Intelligence Limited.