Skip to Content
Skip to Main Navigation
Skip to Information Links
Skip to Site Search
Skip to Footer
Skip to Accessibility Information
Home Page
From the publishers of
Windpower Offshore
Windpower Intelligence
Windpower Monthly
Information Links
Menu
Sign in
Free Trial
Bulletins
Subscribe
Advertise
"19 years of balanced expert perspective
available in our huge archive"
Search
Main Navigation
Home
News
Global Regions
Reports
Insight
Events
Windpower TV
Intelligence
Expert Papers
Business & Companies
Technology
Policy
Project Development
Operations & Maintenance
Transmission
Offshore
Email Bulletins
RSS Newsfeeds
EWEA 2013
North America
Europe
South America
Asia-Pacific
Middle East & Africa
Market Status
About Windpower Monthly Events
Virtual Summit
Webcasts
Visit windpowermonthlyevents.com for the latest on our upcoming conferences and webcasts
GermanyGermany
Analysis: Enercon braced for uncertain future
3 May 2016
by Sara Knight
,
Be the first to comment
GERMANY: Turbine manufacturer Enercon could be harder hit than other market players by the German federal government's plans for renewables.
Enercon managing director Hans-Dieter Kettwig
The onshore wind sector is up in arms over planned revisions to the renewable energy act, due to be passed this autumn.
The federal economy ministry is now evaluating the several hundred contributions lodged in the one-month consultation phase that ended in April, and holding more talks with representatives from federal states and industry federations.
The wind industry is also planning demonstrations this summer to get its message heard.
As the draft law stood in early May, onshore winds role would be reduced to mopping up the remaining small amount of capacity after all other (and more expensive) renewables expansion to ensure strict renewables targets to 2025 are not overstepped.
After more than a decade as Germanys dominant wind company, Enercon has the most to lose.
Enercon installed 1,376MW of new capacity in Germany last year
a 37% share of the market. But the planned revision of the renewable energy act could see the annual onshore wind market shrinking to no more than 1,300MW. Turbine makers would be fighting over a market volume that, in 2015, Enercon had accounted for on its own.
Germanys onshore wind sector warns that this is too little to sustain the countrys industry and its wide spectrum of component suppliers.
Taking into account the federal economy ministry's own forecast for photovoltaic, offshore wind and biomass growth to achieve the target of renewables providing 45% share of electricity generation in 2025, onshore wind will be left with an average net growth of a mere 480MW a year.
Repowering
The ministry expects 16GW of old onshore wind to be closed over the next ten years.
Their replacements, plus the net growth of 480MW a year, would allow an average of around 1.8GW a year in new installations, under the assumption that the new turbines will generate more energy than their predecessors.
But due to uncertainties in getting projects repowered under the new auction regime, turbines are likely to be run for as long as possible and their closures postponed.
According to Enercon, only about 8GW is likely to be decommissioned between now and 2025, which translates into only around 1.3GW of new annual onshore installations when the net 480MW is added.
"Lack of a minimum onshore wind expansion volume is poison for the industry's value-added chain and diversity of players," said Hartmut Kluge of the Bremer Landesband, which has financed some 4GW of German onshore wind power since 1991.
"More onshore wind expansion is likely to be needed after 2021/2022 in Germany when all nuclear plants have closed, but by then the damage to the industry may be done," he said.
Enercon managing director Hans-Dieter Kettwig said:"If the overall onshore wind market in Germany drops below 2.0-2.5GW of installations a year, we'll have to see where we can compensate for this."
He warned that onshore wind could suffer the fate of the photovoltaic industry where manufacturing capacity and know-how has been widely transferred out of Germany.
Enercon would initially target stable country markets with a long-term perspective, where it can offer wind turbines and services with operating guarantees, including energy storage solutions and smart grid solutions.
But the company would also possibly consider markets that until now it has avoided, a company spokesman said.
A launch in the US would probably have to be undertaken with a different name to avoid a clash with American engineering company Enercon Services, which has nuclear, oil and gas, and environmental interests.
India has also been mentioned, though Enercons only activities there are confined to the courts in a long-running legal battle with its one-time partner Wind World India, formerly known as Enercon India until it was required by court decree in 2013 to drop the Enercon name. "India is predestined for involvement in renewable energies," Kettwig noted.
Enercons revenue dipped from 4.9 billion in 2014 to 4.5 billion last year, but is expected to recover to at least 2014s level in 2016, according to Kettwig.
After a consolidated net income of 490 million in 2014, up from 472 million in 2013, the equivalent figure for 2015 was not divulged.
Related Articles
Analysis: Industry questions German sustainability
Analysis: Wind to play swing-producer role in Germany
Market Data: Turbine deals - March 2016
Enercon share in Germany falls in 2015
Before commenting please read our rules for commenting on articles.
If you see a comment you find offensive, you can flag it as inappropriate. In the top right-hand corner of an individual comment, you will see 'flag as inappropriate'. Clicking this prompts us to review the comment. For further information see our rules for commenting on articles.
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus
Google Translate
Share this
Tweet
MORE ON THIS TOPIC
Analysis: Concern over renewed revision of offshore support
Analysis: Poorly organised auction adds to Spanish sector's woes
Complex shipping regulations may slow French offshore
Analysis: Market mechanism uncertainty clouds ambitious targets
GE concludes Alstom purchase
Follow us:
Tweet
Share
Like
Windpower Monthly Events
More events
Latest Jobs
Search
On/Offshore Windfarm InstallationTechnicians
Global Energy Services Siemsa, S.A
International
More Jobs
Help & Information
About Windpower Monthly
Contact Us
Advertiser Information
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Accessibility
FAQ
Sitemap
Cookie policy
Editorial Complaint?
Subscription & Registration
Subscription packages & prices
Subscriber web account activation
Free trial subscription
Register
News & Analysis
News & Analysis
RSS Newsfeeds
Email Bulletins
Global Regions
North & Central America
Europe
South America
Asia & the Pacific
Middle East & Africa
Site Sections
Special Reports
Business Insight & Trends
Wind Industry Events
Windpower TV
Intelligence
Webcasts
Market Status
Wind Industry Sectors
Business & Companies
Wind Power Technology
Policy & Markets
Wind Farm Project Development
Operations & Maintenance
Power Transmission
Offshore Wind Power
Partner Sites
Windpower Intelligence
Windpower Offshore
ENDS Report
ENDS Europe
Windpower Monthly Events
Third Sector
Haymarket Media Group Ltd
All Rights Reserved | Terms & Conditions | Privacy