Skip to content
News Home
About
Advertising
Events
A Sustainable Future for Heathrow
Heathrow: Thrive or Die?
Opportunity Hayes
Place West London
lookwest interactive map
Newsletter
Place West London
Wandsworth Design Awards announced
Curve paused
Investing in connected places
Posted on 3rd May 2016 by lookwestlondon
We spoke to Chris Hiatt of Landid, currently working on a refurbishment of One Queen Caroline Street in Hammersmith, about why they are in West London.
You have a strong presence in West London, why is that? Whats attractive about the area generally?
Back in 2013, we identified that the Western Corridor market, from Hammersmith to Reading, suffered from a chronic lack of Grade A office development coming through. As that market desperately needed the space, we set out a strategy of buying buildings along the M4 and creating high quality workspace for the upcoming generation of occupiers. This resulted in a portfolio of six office developments, two of which we have now sold (The Urban Building in Slough and One Valpy in Reading).
West London has a lot going for it
it is an established market with a whole load of talent living in Ealing, Barnes, Hammersmith, Shepherds Bush and Acton. Whats more, it is extremely well connected, with good existing transport infrastructure and Crossrail still to come in 2019.
West London is a series of towns and centres, all with their own personalities and attributes
which are particularly appealing to you and why?
Certainly Hammersmith has plenty of charm, the amenities there are exceptional and you have very easy access to the Thames. Its home to cultural hubs like the Apollo and the Lyric Theatre, as well as an ever improving range of cafs, bars and restaurants.
Also, it is probably the best connected part of West London with quick access to Chiswick, Chelsea and the West End. Hammersmith is really on the up as a desirable location.
Chiswick High Road also deserves a mention; its consistently voted the best high street in London.
Take me through One Queen Caroline Street
what have you done to it, and what sort of occupier are you looking for?
Landid and Brockton want to deliver workplaces that meet the needs of the very best talent from within the UK workforce, and that aspiration is very much part of One Queen Caroline Street (1QCS).
Occupiers across all industries are finding cost and lack of space difficult to bear, and are looking westwards for a better deal. 1QCS has been designed to capture that market and has been revamped to provide large and flexible floorplates with space for collaboration and creative thinking. We have also installed 100mb/s broadband as standard, so any new occupier has instant access to super-fast connectivity. Each floor has been designed with exposed services styling and a high level detailed finish. We have also installed a panoramic roof terrace with great views across West London.
One would assume that the TMT and creative companies would be the natural occupiers of 1QCS, but there is really no reason why financial or legal companies wouldnt be perfectly at home there as well. The workforce has a completely different attitude these days, and tired, out of date offices are no longer acceptable to the current generation of businesses.
Theres been some talk about the Hammersmith Flyunder
cutting and covering the A4
what do you think of that as an idea?
I think its a fantastic idea, but I am not sure it will happen in my life time. It would transform that part of London, and we would be super supportive if it were to happen.
What do you see as the key differences between One Queen Caroline Street and Charter Building?
Scale, firstly; The Charter Building in Uxbridge has been designed to have the largest speculatively floorplate in London at over 50,000 sq ft. We are actively looking for much larger users than for 1QCS.
Price is also a key difference, with rental cost estimated at mid-30 per square foot for The Charter Building, versus 57.50 per square foot for 1QCS.
Are you looking for more opportunities in West London? If so, what do you look for?
Yes, we are always looking westwards!
The area is really well connected, and we are paying close attention to all West London sites that are touched by Crossrail
currently, Ealing is a stand out area.
We want sites where we can deliver high quality workspace that is well connected and has easy access to amenities (as well as the ability to place amenities within the building). They must be located in talent rich areas and can be delivered to the market by 2018.
This entry was posted in General, Hammersmith and Fulham. Bookmark the permalink.
Wandsworth Design Awards announced
Curve paused
Search for:
LookWest News
Curve paused
Investing in connected places
Wandsworth Design Awards announced
Premier Inn for Fulham
Countryside Hounslow consultation
London First wants more overseas promotion
Friends Garden opens
New South Kilburn park to open
Passengers continue to grow at Heathrow
Brent approves investment strategy
Borough by Borough
Barnet
Brent
Ealing
General
Hammersmith and Fulham
Harrow
Heathrow
Hillingdon
Hounslow
Park Royal
Slough
Wandsworth
Place West London Sponsors
Proudly powered by WordPress.
This site uses cookies More infoNo problem