
RAILRIDERS: Swarzak helps SWB end five-game losing streak.

RailRiders batter Jose Rosario reacts after blasting a solo homerun against Lehigh Valley on Monday night at PNC Field.

Six days ago, Anthony Swarzak had his roughest outing of the season and the RailRiders began a five-game losing streak.
Monday night was a different story, as Swarzak put forth his best start this season and got the RailRiders back in the win
column.
The veteran hurled seven strong innings with six strikeouts as the RailRiders snapped their skid with a 5-2 win over Lehigh Valley in the first game of the IronRail Series at PNC Field.
I needed it badly, not just for me but for the team, Swarzak said. We lost a few in a row there but its nice to be able to throw up some zeroes and keep the lead. It was nice and hopefully I can build on it and get on a roll.
Ive been feeling strong since spring broke. Just a couple innings here and there seem to be crushing my outing, so I tried to stay away from the big inning today.
That big inning nearly came in the second. Swarzak retired the IronPigs in order in the first and struck out Andrew Knapp and Brock Stassi to open the second. But a single from Tommy Joseph and a Cameron Perkins double off the left-field wall gave Lehigh Valley runners on second and third.
That brought up Alfredo Marte, but Swarzak got him to swing at a slider and foul out to third baseman Pete Kozma to end the inning.
He just missed that ball, Swarzak said. When a righty takes a swing like that on slider and pops it up foul down the third-base side, he saw it. It didnt fool him. I got lucky, I continued to make pitches after that to try not to rely on luck later on in the game.
Swarzak was rewarded with a lead in the bottom of the inning. Nick Swisher, who made his first start in right field since joining the RailRiders, led off and fell behind in the count before connecting on Jake Thompsons 1-2 delivery for an opposite-field home run to left field, his third in 10 games with the RailRiders.
That was good, especially on a breaking ball, Swisher said. Ive always been kind of a fastball guy and to be able to have that breaking ball timed up (felt good).
Two batters later, Jose Rosario blasted his first homer of the season, also to left field, giving the RailRiders a 2-0 lead.
The RailRiders continued to jump on Thompson
Philadelphias top pitching prospecting, according to Baseball America
in the third. Ben Gamel and Donovan Solano started it with consecutive singles to put runners on the corners for Gary Sanchez. Sanchez got ahead in the count, 3-1, before driving Thompsons pitch to the left-center field warning track where it one-hopped the wall. Gamel and Solano scored and
Sanchez was on second with a two-run double.
Chris Parmelee singled him home two batters later and the RailRiders were up, 5-0.
I think more than anything, for us to be able to get that win was huge, Swisher said. Coming back off of losing three straight in Syracuse, especially in New York,
that wasnt a good road trip for us. We capitalized on some big opportunities
obviously Gary with a huge double really kind of got us moving in the right direction. And Swarzak did a tremendous job on the mound for us.
The IronPigs got one off of Swarzak in the fourth. With two outs and Knapp on third with a triple, Joseph hit a sharp grounder up the middle. Shortstop Jonathan Diaz made a diving stop, but his throw to first pulled Parmelee off the bag, resulting in an RBI infield single.
Still, the effort fired up Swarzak, as he rebounded to strike out Perkins on three pitches.
Some guys made some great plays behind me to keep me rolling, Swarzak said. Our infield is by far one of the best infields Ive ever seen. Those guys give you confidence to throw the ball down in the zone and get some ground balls.
Nick Williams gave Lehigh Valley its second run with a one-out home run in the sixth. But Swarzak responded by retiring his final five batters on nine pitches before giving way to Vinnie Pestano and James Pazos.
Pestano struck out the side in the eighth and Pazos struck out Williams and Knapp before getting Stassi to fly out to Swisher, who made a leaping catch on the warning track, to pick up his first save of the year.
The key for (Swarzak) was for him not to throw a lot of pitches early in the game, manager Al Pedrique said. It definitely was a big help for the bullpen.
Contact the writer: shennigan@timesshamrock.com

