Trending Now
#MetGala
#JayZMetGala
#DWTS
The Best Dressed Stars at the Met Gala
Sign In
Subscribe
Us Weekly Magazine
Home
News
Videos
Style
Beauty
Moms
Entertainment
Pets
More
Home
Beauty
Videos
Moms
Entertainment
Pets
Body
Met Gala
Celebrity Directory
Newsletter
Photos
Celeb Supermoms
Polls
Country
Oscars
Emmys
Red Carpet Daily
Best of 2015
Royal Family
Golden Globes
Grammys
SAG Awards
Holidays with Us
Secrets from the Set
Hot Pics
Subscribe
Life Hacks
VMAs
#MetGala
#JayZMetGala
#DWTS
Editor's Picks
Solange Knowles Creates Met Gala 2016 Drama With Cryptic, Shady Tweet
Kanye West Gushes About Being Met Gala 2016's 'Best Dressed Couple,' Gives Twitter Acceptance Speech
'Teen Mom 2' Recap: Leah Messer Wins Back Custody, Jenelle Evans' Boyfriend Worries Nathan Griffith Lives in a 'Whorehouse'
Gwen Stefani Does Carpool Karaoke with James Corden: Watch the Trailer
Why Jay Z Didnt Accompany Beyonce on the Met Gala 2016 Red Carpet
Beyonce, Kim Kardashian Feature in Hilarious Met Gala 2016 Tweets, Memes
'Dancing With the Stars' Recap: Ginger Zee and Paige VanZant Earn Perfect Scores, Two Stars Go Home
Met Gala 2016 Red Carpet Fashion: Best Dressed Stars
Exclusive
Met Gala 2016: Karolina Kurkovas Dress Lit Up, Changed Colors According to Tweets
May 3, 2016 @ 8:00 AM
By
Khalea Underwood
Kurkova attends the "Manus x Machina: Fashion In An Age Of Technology" Costume Institute Gala in 2016.
Dimitrios Kambouris/Getty Images
A work of living art! Karolina Kurkova took the Manus x Machina theme to heart at the Metropolitan Museum of Art Costume Institute Gala 2016. For the annual ball, held on May 2, Marchesa and IBM Watson teamed up to create Kurkovas one-of-a-kind gown.
PHOTOS: Met Gala 2016 Red Carpet Fashion: Best Dressed Stars
"Our intention was to use technology in a way that felt quintessentially Marchesa, Keren Craig, co-founder of Marchesa, exclusively told Us Weekly. Technology is about fantasy as well, so it was a perfect fit.Please comment on all of my social accounts b/c my dress will react to your emotions! #MetGala @IBM @MarchesaFashion pic.twitter.com/CXUKcVd8Hm Karolina Kurkova (@karolinakurkova) May 2, 2016 Throughout the night, when tweeters wrote about the respective brands, the dress LED lights changed colors to reflect the different emotions like excitement and happiness. A series of bulbs and wires powered the pastel-colored creation. Fellow co-founder Georgina Chapman revealed that the wires didnt act as the dress boning
instead they took a more creative approach. We incorporated them into the stems of the flowers, she exclusively told Us. "Its been a really interesting learning curve for us because we use a lot of metal beading and had to be very careful with that near the sensors because it can short them!
PHOTOS: Met Gala 2016 Red Carpet Fashion: What the Stars Wore
Kurkova attends the "Manus x Machina: Fashion In An Age Of Technology" Costume Institute Gala
in 2016.
Larry Busacca/Getty Images
Although the dress seems complicated, Kurkova was comfortable the entire night. Its light, its airy, you cant tell that it has wires and led lights in it, Kurkova, 32, told Us. Theres a lot thats going on underneath with all the wiring, but you wouldnt know that this dress is actually a piece of technology unless I told you! I like that its a little secret I have!
PHOTOS: Met Gala 2016: Stars Share Behind-the-Scenes Photos While They Prep
The tech-meets-fashion theme even made its way into the models makeup.I wanted to play with light, celebrity makeup artist Charlotte Tilbury told Us. It was all about highlighting over the cheekbones, contouring using a brush that has a little bit of gold flecks throughout it.Tilbury, whos also worked with Jennifer Aniston and Miranda Kerr, used intelligent products from her eponymous line. Among her tricks of the trade, Tilbury applied her Magic Foundation that morphs to your skin, tightens your pores and fills in your lines in a six-hour duration; the Mini Miracle Eye Wand, which she describes as "eight hours sleep in two clicks as well as Color Chameleon in Dark Pearl and Champagne Diamonds on the lashes, which brought out the sparkle in her eyes.
Tweet with @UsWeekly using the hashtag #stylebyUs!
Get celeb fashion, beauty tips, and more delivered directly to your inbox. Sign up for the Us Weekly Style & Beauty newsletter now!
Met Gala
See Complete Coverage
Add a Comment
Sign Up for the Us Weekly Newsletter!You will receive the latest news and updates on your favorite celebrities!
Subscribe
Digital Issue
Give a Gift
Us Weekly 2016Privacy Policy
Your Privacy Rights
Your Ad Choices
Data Policy
Terms of Use
Contact Us
FAQ
Sitemap
Don't have an Us Weekly account?
Sign up here.
Sign In
Want to be an Us Insider? Sign up for exclusive news about your favorite celebrities and more.
Already a member? Click here.
Login With Facebook!
Login With Google+!
- or -
Create An Account Here!
Register