+1-518-618-1030
866 - 552 - 3453
USA-Canada Toll Free
Menu
Research Categories
Medical Devices
Technology & Media
Chemical & Materials
Pharmaceutical
Food & Beverages
Energy & Mining
Consumer Goods
Semiconductor & Electronics
Biotechnology
Healthcare IT
Metals & Minerals
Defense & Aeronautics
Packaging
View All Categories
Blog
Articles
Press Releases
About Us
Services
Syndicated Research
Custom Research
Consulting Services
Contact Us
Making Critical Decisions. Effortless.
Advance Search
Home
Articles
Global Cleanroom Consumables Market to Witness Rapid Growth owing to Rising Demand for Modular Cleanroom Systems Worldwide
Global Cleanroom Consumables Market to Witness Rapid Growth owing to Rising Demand for Modular Cleanroom Systems Worldwide
Posted on May 03, 2016
A cleanroom refers to a specially designed place bearing a controlled environment. It can regulate the air distribution, air supply, construction or manufacturing material, and other processes to avoid the presence of airborne particles. Cleanrooms are widely used across the globe in research and development and in manufacturing applications across diverse sectors such as pharmaceuticals, aerospace, life sciences, and electronics and semiconductors.
In 2014, the globalcleanroom consumablesmarketwas worth US$7.64 bn and is anticipated to reach a valuation of US$11.31 bn by the end of 2023. The market is expected to register a 4.40% CAGR between 2015 and 2023.
The growing demand for modular cleanroom systems is expected to boost the demand for cleanroom consumables market in the next few years. In addition, the relatively new concept of mobile cleanrooms is estimated to create appreciable opportunities for market players. However, the increasing raw material prices are hampering the growth of the market.
Increasing Demand for Semiconductors to Stir up Demand for Cleanroom Consumables in Electronics Industry
The global market for cleanroom consumables can be divided on the basis of application into pharmaceutical and biologics, biotechnology, electronics, medical devices, aerospace and defense, and others (automotive and academics). In 2014, the electronics and pharmaceuticals and biologics segments collectively accounted for the largest share in the global cleanroom consumables market. The rapid growth of the electronics segment can be attributed to the increasing demand for solar-panel assembly, semiconductors, and testing operations.
On the other hand, the manufacturing of active pharmaceutical ingredients (API) and generic drugs, particularly in Japan, India, Singapore, China, Taiwan, and Australia are the major factors responsible for the substantial demand for cleanroom consumables in the pharmaceuticals and biologics segment in the last few years. Furthermore, the biotechnology segment is projected to witness rapid growth in the near future.
By product type, the global market for cleanroom consumables can be segmented into adhesive mats, cleanroom apparel, cleaning products, gloves, cleanroom stationery, and wipers. In 2014, the gloves segment accounted for the largest share in the overall market. In the same year, the cleanroom apparel segment held the second position in the overall market.
Rapid Urbanization to Drive Asia Pacific Cleanroom Consumables Market
The global market for cleanroom consumables can be classified on the basis of geography into Europe, Asia Pacific, North America, and Rest of the World. In 2014, Asia Pacific accounted for the largest share in the global market for cleanroom consumables. This region is expected to continue in its leading position, exhibiting a high growth rate in the next few years. A high number of cleanrooms in existence and many new ones being established are fueling the growth of the market. In addition, rapid urbanization and increasing disposable incomes are some of the other factors projected to boost the demand for cleanroom consumables in the Asia Pacific region in the near future.
The prominent players operating in the global market for cleanroom consumables are Nitritex Ltd., KM Corporation, Valutek, Kimberly-Clark Corporation, Texwipe, Micronclean (skegness) Ltd., Cantel Medical, Thermo Fisher Scientific, Contec, Inc., Micronova Manufacturing, Inc., DuPont, and Berkshire Corporation.
Browse FullGlobal Cleanroom Consumables MarketResearch Report With Complete TOC @http://www.transparencymarketresearch.com/cleanroom-consumables-market.html
Related Report
Fitness Equipment Market - Global Industry Analysis, Size, Share, Growth, Trends, and Forecast 2016 - 2023
Global Fitness Equipment Market: Description
Fitness equipment refers to devices used during physical activity to enhance the conditioning effects of a particular exercise by offering adjustable or fixed resistance or by enhancing the experience of an exercise routine. Th...
Nebulizers Market: (Product Type- Pneumatic Nebulizers, Ultrasonic Nebulizers, Mesh Nebulizers and Nebulizer Kits; Zone- North Zone, South Zone, East Zone, West Zone and Central Zone) - India Industry Analysis, Size, Share, Growth, Trends, Volume, and Forecast 2015 - 2023
A nebulizer is an electrically powered or battery operated instrument that converts liquid medication into mist. Nebulizer is one of the preferred choices for the treatment of asthma, cystic fibrosis (CFTR) and COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease). This facilitates penetration of the medi...
Hemodynamic Monitoring Systems Market - Global Industry Analysis, Size, Share, Growth, Trends, and Forecast 2016 - 2023
Global Hemodynamic Monitoring Systems Market: Overview
A hemodynamic monitoring system is used in cases where a patients cardiovascular health needs to be assessed, especially among those patients that have undergone a cardiac surgery. The various parameters that t...
About Us
Career
Methodology
How to order
Delivery Method
FAQs
Research Categories
Latest
Upcoming
Services
Conferences
Sitemap
Return Policy
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
Connect Us
Twitter
Follow TMR's Twitter feed for the latest market developments and analysis
Facebook
Like TMR's page for updates on published and upcoming market research reports
LinkedIn
Gain access to TMR's expert insights and thought leadership posts
Google+
Follow TMR for the latest updates from our research experts
Copyright
Transparency Market Research. All Rights Reserved
Advance Search
Search For :
Report Type :
All
Upcoming
Published
Category :
Select A Category
Pharmaceutical
Chemical & Materials
Energy & Mining
Food & Beverages
Semiconductor & Electronics
Medical Devices
Consumer Goods
Technology & Media
Biotechnology
Healthcare IT
Metals and Minerals
Defense and Aeronautics