site
Archive
subscribe
|
find and save
|
newsletter
classifieds
jobs
cars
homes
FEATURED
NEWS NOW
Concord Thoreau Society to host CNN presidential historian
...
Massachusetts House of Representatives passes budget
...
Concord library to host poet John Hodgen
...
Concord Thoreau Society to host CNN presidential historian
...
Massachusetts House of Representatives passes budget
...
Concord library to host poet John Hodgen
...
Garden Club of Concord to hold plant sale
Comment
The Concord Journal
Writer
Posted Apr. 29, 2016 at 7:00 AM
Posted Apr. 29, 2016 at 7:00 AM
CONCORD
Just in time for Mothers Day, the Garden Club of Concord will host its annual plant sale from 8:30 a.m. to 1 p.m. May 7, rain or shine, in front of the Middlesex Savings Bank in Concord Center, 64 Main St.Over 1,000 plants will be for sale, including perennials, herbs, annuals, vegetables and houseplants. Many of the perennials come from the established gardens of the clubs members.There will also be a bake sale, a raffle of a custom flower arrangement, and container plants of herbs and flowers for sale.The Garden Club of Concord, founded in 1928, sponsors education and community service projects throughout the year, and a number of community outreach programs, including an annual Arbor Day observation and a spring flower workshop. The club is also responsible for creating and delivering flower arrangements to the elderly and to town departments, participating in Concords Agricultural Day and maintaining two town gardens and planters at the Visitors Center.Proceeds raised from the annual plant sale are distributed to local projects that reflect the clubs horticultural mission. In 2015, $5,000 in grants was distributed to the following organizations:
Concord Council on Aging, Concord Housing Authority, Cooperative Elder Services, Concord Land Conservation Trust, Emerson Umbrella, Gaining Ground, Minuteman ARC, Grassroots Wildlife Conservation, Great Meadows Community Project and the Old Manse. This year, the Garden Club offered a scholarship in the amount of $1,000 to a student pursuing studies and concentrating in horticulture, floriculture, environmental studies/science, land conservation, landscape design or architecture, forestry, agronomy, land management and botany. The scholarship will be awarded and presented at the annual June luncheon of the Garden Club.For information: gardenclubofconcord.org.
The Concord Journal
Writer
Posted Apr. 29, 2016 at 7:00 AM
Comment or view comments
Terms of Service
STAY INFORMED
Email NewsLetter
Sign Up Today
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
North Boston Directory
Featured Businesses
Loading...
Business Name
addressLocation, ST | website.com
Find North Boston Attractions
Bars
Restaurants
Beauty Salons
Entertainment
Doctors
Medical Specialists
Contractors
Education
Lawn Services
Lawyers
Shopping
Travel
Tanning
Used Cars
Wedding Services
Add your business here +
Events Calendar
Connect with The Concord Journal
Facebook
Twitter
RSS
Back to top
Site Services
Work for Us
Subscribe
Submit your news
Ads
Archives
Market Place
Homes
Classifieds
Community Info
Town of Concord
Concord Public Schools
Concord Free Public Library
Chamber of Commerce
Council on Aging
Organizations
Rotary Club of Concord
Concord Lions Club
League of Women Voters of Concord-Carlisle
Concord Elks
Concord Scout House
CCTV
Wicked Local Media Solutions
Propel Marketing
More Content Now
Find&Save
Mobile Site
Stay Informed
Email newsletter
Sign Up Today
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
Copyright 2006-2016 Gatehouse Media, Inc. Some rights reservedPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service|Gatehouse Media Publications
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted. The Concord Journal | 150 Baker Avenue Ext., Suite 101, P.O. Box 9191, Concord, MA 01742