Computerworld
Budget 2016: NBN approaches limit of government funding
News
Technology
News
Business
Cloud Computing
Data Centre
Gaming Dev
Government
Infrastructure
Mobility
Networking
Open Source
Security
Servers
Social Networking
Software
Software Development
Storage
Tech Planet
Telecoms
Tutorials
Unified Comms
Virtualisation
Tools
Blogs
Editorial Contacts
Events
IT Media Releases
Join Computerworld
Newsletters
NBN
RSS
Slideshows
Vendor View
Videos
Zones
Whitepapers
All Whitepapers
Business + Management
Cloud Computing
CRM
Data Centre
Data Management
Disaster Recovery
Network
Security
Storage
Telecommunications
Unified Communications
Virtualisation
Wireless
Other Whitepapers
Login
Username
Password
Forgot password?
Sign up now to get free exclusive access to reports, research and invitation only events.
Twitter
Facebook
Budget 2016: NBN approaches limit of government funding
NBN prepares to raise debt
Rohan Pearce (Computerworld)
03 May, 2016 21:24
-
-
-
-
print
email
Comments
Barring disaster, this years federal budget will mark the final government injection of capital into NBN, with $8.8 billion earmarked for the National Broadband Network rollout.
The government has previously capped its contribution to the rollout at $29.5 billion, and NBN is expected to hit that cap by the end of the 2016-17 financial year.
That leaves NBN with a funding gap expected to be between $16.5 billion and $26 billion.
NBNs 2015 corporate plan revealed that the costs of the multi-technology mix network rollout had turned out to be higher than expected, with NBN estimating the total cost to be between $46 billion and $56 billion. (NBNs management is aiming for $49 billion.)
The corporate plan projects debt funding beginning in FY17 at $100 million and growing to $9.8 billion in FY18.
Budget documents state that NBN is currently undertaking the necessary preparatory work on the proposed debt raising.
In the event that nbn is initially unable to raise the necessary debt on acceptable terms, interim funding support may be required, the documents state.
Were it required, additional Government financial support for nbn would have implications for the fiscal position, for example by increasing assets and liabilities on the balance sheet and, depending on the nature of support, could have positive or negative impacts on the underlying cash balance.
NBNs chief financial officer, Stephen Rue,
said during a February results briefing that the [[artnd:593464|company had
engaged in preliminary discussions with potential sources of
funding]].
Read more Budget 2016: Government cracks down on GST-free online purchases
Were very confident that the trajectory of the business, the growth profile, the fact that we have set out targets for the last six quarters and weve hit those targets, ingrains a lot of confidence in the fact that well be able to go and borrow that money, with a strong revenue profile coming and strong profitability in the future, the CFO said.
The Government has tasked the Department of Finance, in consultation with the Department of Communications and the Arts and the Department of the Treasury, to seek independent expert advice on strategies to meet NBN Co Limiteds future funding requirements, budget documents state.
Read More:
Budget 2016: Government unveils Google tax
iiNet founder joins NBN board
Brand Post
Untangling the complexity of cloud computing
More from Rackspace
Join the Computerworld newsletter!
Join
Error: Please check your email address.
Tags National Broadband Network (NBN)national broadband networkbroadbandBudget 2016
More about Department of CommunicationsNBN Co
Editor's Recommendations
Budget 2016: Government unveils Google tax
Budget 2016: Government cracks down on GST-free online purchases
Defence trials IBMs Watson for psyops
NSW to appoint government CIO
Australian Signals Directorate updates Top 4 security guides
La Trobe University forges ahead with cloud-first strategy
Related Whitepapers
The Top 6 Reports for IT PMOs
How to think like a Data Scientist
- Infographic
Gartner Magic Quadrant for Web Conferencing
Hyper Converged Infrastructure for the Hybrid Cloud Revolution
Show Comments
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Read next
Vodafone prepares to roll out 4G to MVNOs
Money laundering using bitcoin a significant risk, finds govt review
Three steps to compliance for end-of-life systems
CSO Online
In pictures: Twitter's new Australian headquarters
In Pictures: Ultimate guide to Raspberry Pi operating systems, part 1
Inside Origin Energys skunkworks analytics program
Market Place
CSO Live Webcast: Hear from KuppingerCole Analysts and ForgeRock on User-Managed Access. Register now
F5 Security Hub NEW Look -
Try us out today!
APJ businesses think they will be breached: Here's why: Read the article NOW
Editorial Contacts
Advertising Information
Privacy Policy
RSS
Newsletters
Events
Whitepapers
News
Zones
IT Media Releases
Slideshows
Videos
Copyright 2016 IDG Communications. ABN 14 001 592 650. All rights reserved. Reproduction in whole or in part in any form or medium without express written permission of IDG Communications is prohibited.
IDG Sites:
PC World |
GoodGearGuide |
CIO |
CMO |
CSO |
Techworld |
ARN |
CIO Executive Council