
Country singer Sturgill Simpson covers Nirvana on new album - The West Australian.

What was Sturgill Simpson thinking? Midway through major label debut A Sailors Guide to Earth, the Kentucky- bred country muso wraps his honey-dipped drawl, which recalls Waylon Jennings and Merle Haggard, around grunge icons Nirvanas In Bloom.I wanted to piss people off, Simpson, 37, chuckles from New York offices of Atlantic Records.Has it? Wonderfully so. I think thats the reason Kurt (Cobain) would love it if he was here to hear it.The unusual choice was made when Simpson needed a song to communicate adolescent angst to his young son, who turns two next month and for whom A Sailors Guide to Earth was made.I really just did make the record for my son without giving a f... what anybody else might think about it, the singer-songwriter says in his earthy twang when asked why he self-produced the album in Nashville.Grammy Award-winning producer Dave Cobb helmed Simpsons previous two albums, 2013s High Top Mountain (named after a cemetery near Jackson, Kentucky, where his relatives are buried) and 2014s Metamodern Sounds in Country Music.The latter earned a Grammy nomination and refers to his hero Ray Charles ground- breaking 1962 album Modern Sounds in Country and Western Music.Simpsons tastes range from Charles and fellow soul legends Marvin Gaye and Otis Redding
I think Otis might be my favourite country singer of all time, he states
to grunge and hard rock.He says he produced A Sailors Guide himself because he had a clear idea of how he wanted it to sound and, more importantly, the songs are so personal that he didnt want any outside interference.While on the surface a country rocker worthy of any honky-tonks jukebox, Sea Stories was partly inspired by tales of depression, substance abuse and suicide involving members of the US Navy
including Simpson, who was stationed in Japan.Sturgill Simpson spent three years in the US Navy after high school.I was actually three months into my senior of high school when I enlisted, he explains. My dad had to sign for me after spending a week trying to talk me out of it.I went to basic training a week after I graduated, which was in 1996, and I got out three years later. It was like another lifetime.Struggling to reconnect with family and home, Simpson immersed himself in the bluegrass music his mandolin- obsessed great-grandfather had previously and unsuccessfully attempted to pass down before he ran away with the navy.I was in fifth grade and older cousins had already ruined my life with Guns N Roses and Led Zeppelin records, Simpson says. I just wanted to smoke pot and play Jimmy Page licks.After I got out of the navy and moved back home, I was trying to reacclimatise to civilian life and find myself again, and I heard some old Bill Monroe and Stanley Brothers tunes and they just floored me. It brought me full circle.Simpson, who hopes to visit Australia soon after postponing east coast gigs earlier this year, jokes that he was too lazy to play high-octane bluegrass, so he slowed down and focused on the blend of country, soul and rock heard on his superb albums.His incredible voice can also be heard on TV. His song Sugar Daddy is the theme for the Martin Scorsese/Mick Jagger-produced series Vinyl, which is set within the New York music industry of the 1970s.Simpson was approached out of the blue to submit music for show. I listened to a lot of Humble Pie, T. Rex and Zeppelin when I was a kid, so I was like All right, I can do this.While he doesnt seem all that enthusiastic about Vinyl, Simpson is glad he contributed to the shows soundtrack.Martin Scorsese knows who I am, he chuckles, so, if nothing else, that came out of it.A Sailors Guide to Earth is out now.

