
Diversion of tax: FIRS threatens to seal NAHCO.


Federal Inland Revenue Service, FIRS, last week stormed the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company, NAHCO, Plc over its refusal to remit to the governments coffers multimillion naira taxes due it. This is as our correspondent gathered yesterday, that the company between January and April 2016 had sacked no fewer than 100 staff from its payroll. The ground handling company it was revealed had to pay about N100million within 24 hours to the coffers of FIRS to forestall its planned closure by the revenue agency that had gone to the company with the aim of shutting it down totally. A source close to the company who didnt want his name in print told our correspondent that the N100 million payments to FIRS coffers, was a part-payment the company had to pay, stressing that the company was still reconciling its account with the revenue agency. The source told our correspondent that NAHCO had an agreement with FIRS to be paying some amount of money to the agency on a monthly basis, but had consistently defaulted, a situation, which led to its planned closure last week.
When our correspondent visited the ground handling headquarters at the Murtaa Muhammed Airport, MMA, Lagos over the weekend, a sticker of FIRS, which stated do not remove was boldly pasted on its wall. Besides, our correspondent gathered that the ground handling company in the past four months had sack at least 100 workers due to paucity of funds. But, in a bid to curb crisis in the company, the sack was turned to compulsory retirement for the affected staff. However, the industry unions, which most of the workers belong, ensured that all their members entitlements were duly paid, which negatively drained the purse of the company. For instance, some of the junior staff, got as much as N3.5 million before the compulsory retirement, while those in the senior cadres received multiple millions. The Acting spokesman of NAHCO, Mr. Samuel Akinrinmade, in a telephone interview with our correspondent confirmed that FIRS officials visited the ground handling company recently, but noted that the issue had been resolved by both parties. Akinrinmade could however, not confirm the actual amount of money the company defaulted to FIRS, promising to get across to our correspondent on this, but as at the time of filing this report, he was yet to do so. He said: The issue with FIRS has been resolved by both parties. NAHCO already has an agreement with FIRS to pay some certain amount of money to the agency on a monthly basis, but we defaulted on a particular month and that was why they came to our office. On the sack of over 100 workers within the year, Akinrinmade expressed that the personnel were not sacked, but were only retired. NAHCO in the past two years had been enmeshed in controversies especially with the unions on the welfares of members. In 2014, no fewer than 300 workers including its Managing Director, Mr. Mr. Kayode Oluwasegun- Ojo and some other management staff were shown the way out.

