About Cookies
We want you to enjoy your visit to our website.
That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience. By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies.
More info about cookies.
Accept & close
Business Directory
Local Info
Dating
Buy Sell
Book an Ad
Search
Enter your search below:
Register
|
Sign In
@NewsShopper All the latest news and views from News Shopper
News Shopper Like us on Facebook
Bromley 3.7c
News
Sport
What's On
Events
Lists/Laughs
Jobs
Property
Announcements
Cars
More
NewsBromley
Bexley
Greenwich
Lewisham
Dartford & Swanley
Gravesend
National
Weird
Business
Community
Photo Galleries
Register
Sign In
Home
News
Sport
Announcements
Jobs
Most popular
UK news
Send us your news
Cars
Traffic & travel
Business Directory
Property
Dating
Desktop site
Bromley police capture loose horses in Orpington after FOUR HOUR chase
Police capture the loose horses in Orpington after a 4 hour chase. (c.) MPS Biggin Hill/Twitter.
/ Jess Bell, reporter /
jessbellnews
Share:
0 comments
Police in Bromley had a 'mare yesterday when they were called to round up two loose horses in Orpington.
It took police four hours to capture the runaway animals after officers gave a lengthy chase.
Police sergeant Lance Chenery, a neighbourhood officerwith MPS Biggin Hill, posted on Twitter: Lost a horse or two? Response officers currently running around fields east of #Ramsden #Orpington trying to capture 2 loose horses.
Never to miss an opportunity for some animal themed puns, Twitter users responded accordingly.
One person replied: "Neigh idea Lance."
Queue the horse banter
know the owners? call 101 ref CAD 2576 24APR16
PS Lance Chenery (@MPSBigginHill) April 24, 2016
Luckily the horses avoided the local roads, otherwise drivers could have faced closures and tailbacks.
The Bromley officers were assisted by members of the Metropolitan Polices Roads and Transport Policing Command, who were pictured taking the horses for a walk.
Officers appealed for the owners to come forward and call 101, using the reference CAD 2576 24APR16.
Its not the first time officers in Bromley have had to call on their animal handling skills, after runaway pigs managed to close off a main road in Orpington back in December.
PCs Nikki Crocker, Laura Evans and Shaz Bassi with one of the pigs, which escaped onto the A21 in Orpington.
Officers were called out twice in one week to round up the rogue pigs which had wandered on to the A21 between Pratts Bottom and Orpington.
The first call out on December 29 involved a herd of 20 pigs which had broken free from a nearby farm.
The next day another pig from the same farm managed to make a getaway, again ending up on the busy Sevenoaks Road.
Share:
0 comments
Promoted stories
Most popular
See more stories
Most popular
See more stories
Comments
Sorry, an error occurred.
Sign in or Register to leave a comment and/or receive comment alerts.
Next Up
Mobile site
Contact Us
Subscribe
Photo Sales
Advertise
AdChoices
Archive
Topics
Announcements
Site Map
Exchange and Mart
Dating
Terms & Conditions
Contributor Terms
Cookie Policy
Privacy Policy
Copyright 2001-2015
This site is part of Newsquest's audited local newspaper network | A Gannett Company
Newsquest (London) Ltd, Loudwater Mill, Station Road, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire. HP10 9TY|3105111|Registered in England & Wales
Ipsoregulated
This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then please contact the editor here. If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here