
No Resolution Reached on New Duluth Vacation Rental Standards

The controversial issue of vacation home rentals in the city of Duluth remains unresolved on Monday after the city council voted to postpone finalizing a new set of standards for short term rentals.
The ongoing rift between neighborhood and rental interests continues to be the sticking point in the debate, which has yet to come to a consensus. Meanwhile, a year-long moratorium on new vacation rentals is set to expire months from now.
In Monday night's meeting, the council heard from two community members representing the Duluth Area Realtor's Association who say their counterparts take issue with putting a cap on the number of new vacation rentals allowed in the city of Duluth.
John Thornton, from the realtor's association, told councilors that there should be no limit placed on the number of vacation rentals. If there is, he said it should be almost double the current proposal which would allow 60 new vacation rentals in Duluth over the next two years.
"When you put a cap on it, and in this case, it's 60, we believe that cap will be filled within weeks if not less than a month. And the reason is, it's going to create an artificial demand for those permits," Thornton said.
Councilor Joel Sipress was highly critical of several claims made by real estate interests including that caps are unnecessary.
Councilor Sipress said he more time to find the appropriate balance between the needs of the tourism industry and neighborhoods and neighbors. He said neighbors have legitimate concerns and a cap would protect neighborhoods from over-proliferation.
"I think we have an obligation to the people that we represent to try to find that appropriate balance between the needs of our tourist industry and the needs of our neighborhoods," Sipress said. "There are in fact two interests here, not just one."
Sipress said he's toyed with the idea of a permanent moratorium, on the premise that vacation rentals are a commercial enterprise, which operate in areas specifically designated as residential, not mini-hotels. However, he said in Duluth's tourist-economy, visitors have come to expect lodging options on sites like Airbnb and VRBO. The fact that there's high demand for short-term rentals is a point both sides seemed to agree on.
Councilor Gary Anderson said he's comfortable with the protections the new ordinance would bring for neighbors, citing language which calls for a vacation rental's license to be revoked if the site gets three complaints with in six years. Anderson argued that would be incentive enough for owners to be good neighbors.
While no standards were changed Monday evening, Council President Zach Filipovich does intend to schedule a committee of the whole meeting, so councilors can have another chance to hammer out the details of the vacation rental issue.
That meeting is planned for next Thursday right after the councils regular, 5:15 p.m.agenda session.

