Skip to main content
Home
Products
Industries
Services
Events
Support
Company
Search form
Search
English
STAR-CCM+
STAR-CD
Optimate
SPEED
Battery Design Studio
Battery Simulation Module
DARS
STAR-Cast
HEEDS
wave
Live Webinars
Workshops
Training
Webcast Recordings
Conference Videos
Previous Conferences
Upcoming Conferences
Support
Training
The Steve Portal
About
Careers
Locations
Dynamics Magazine
Partners
Merchandise
News
Social
Blog
Brochures
Academic
Aerospace
Batteries
Chemical Process
Electronics
Electric Machines
Energy
Ground Transportation
Life Sciences
Manufacturing
Marine
Oil and Gas
Sports
Turbomachinery
Civil and MEP
Blog
CD-adapco is now part of the the Siemens PLM family
Bill Clark
May 3, 2016, 5:14 am
Share This Post
Bill Clark's blog
So its finally official. I am delighted to announce that CD-adapco is now a part of the Siemens PLM family.
Back in January, when we first announced that Siemens PLM Software had entered into an agreement to purchase CD-adapco, legal regulations prevented us from talking in any detail about the acquisition and its consequences. Since the deal has now formally closed I am happy to take this opportunity to describe in detail the extent to which it will benefit customers of both CD-adapco and Siemens, as well as the PLM marketplace as a whole.
Market Leadership. As part of Siemens PLM our combined market share makes Siemens the clear leader amongst PLM solution providers in simulation and test software, and associated services. As part of our Digitalization strategy, Siemens is building a powerful suite of applications, including a broad range of simulation solutions, which now includes STAR-CCM+, HEEDS MDO, and the other CD-adapco simulation tools and solutions.
Synergy. The simulation product offerings from CD-adapco and Siemens PLM Software are very complimentary. The Siemens simulation portfolio mainly covers the structural domains, behavioral simulations & testing solutions, whilst CD-adapco brings together the fluid domains, heat transfer and design space exploration. This fits perfectly with CD-adapcos vision of multi-disciplinary design exploration, as it will allow greater synergy and integration with the whole Siemens portfolio of PLM software in the future.
Investment. Siemens have a stated ambition to invest strongly in the development of CD-adapcos portfolio of simulation tools, including STAR-CCM+, HEEDS MDO, which are already the most innovative on the market. By leveraging Siemens expanded bandwidth and greater development resources we will extend that position of leadership and deliver as set of tools that better meets your engineering simulation needs.
Support. Our customer support model will remain unchanged. You will continue to have access to your Dedicated Support Engineer, and we will continue to build upon and expand our very successful Steve customer portal. As part of their review of the CD-adapco business, Siemens PLM management concluded to our customer support model is the best in the industry, and that they intend to learn and borrow from it across their business.
Other CAE Tools. Unlike our competitors in the PLM space, Siemens has an open policy with regard to other simulation and CAE tools. Siemens embraces the open exchange of ideas, processes, information and software within the PLM ecosystem. We also deliver a stable, standards-based, open foundation for software development and engineering services. This open approach will not change for the existing CD-adapco products. You will never be obliged to use only Siemens PLM tools in your simulation process, and that we will continue to work and interface with other simulation tools and providers.
Better Designs, Faster. The goal, as ever, is to help our customers discover better designs faster and with greater confidence. Our combined simulation solutions will allow customers to create digital twins of product design candidates, therefore allowing evaluation and tradeoffs of design variations that affect the behavior of the product across all performance attributes, throughout the entire product lifecycle.
Along with the rest of the senior management of CD-adapco, I am convinced that Siemens PLM offers the best possible future for CD-adapco customers and employees, products and technology.
View the discussion thread.
Brigid Blaschak
Communications Specialist
See Blog Posts
Matthew Godo
STAR-CCM+ Product Manager
See Blog Posts
Stephen Ferguson
Marketing Director
See Blog Posts
Dr Mesh
Meshing Guru
See Blog Posts
Joel Davison
Lead Product Manager, STAR-CCM+
See Blog Posts
James Clement
STAR-CCM+ Product Manager
See Blog Posts
Prashanth Shankara
Technical Marketing Engineer
See Blog Posts
Sabine Goodwin
Director, Product Marketing
See Blog Posts
Featured Simulations
Archives
May 2016
(1)
April 2016
(2)
March 2016
(6)
February 2016
(6)
January 2016
(3)
December 2015
(3)
November 2015
(2)
October 2015
(4)
July 2015
(2)
June 2015
(6)
May 2015
(4)
April 2015
(2)
March 2015
(1)
Home
Contact Us
Global Locations
Careers
Support
Academic
Macrohut
Sitemap
Magazine
News
Social
Blog
Feature banners archive
Downloads
Library
Publications
Gallery
Animations
License Terms
Privacy Policy Highlights
Trademarks
Terms of Use
Export Compliance
Close
We use cookies and other technologies to improve your online experience. By using this Site, you consent to this use as described in our
Privacy Policy.