Subscribe
Log In
Search
Listen Now
Tuesday, May 3, 2016 83
Today's Paper
Weather
45F
Mostly Cloudy
Tuesday, May 3, 2016
Today's Schedule Listen Now!
Toggle navigation
News
Local
State
Nation - World
Business
Obituaries
Weather
Sports
Prep Sports
Illini Sports
All Sports
Illini Forums
Business
Living
A&E
Blogs
Opinion
Editorials
Letters
Columns
Guest Commentary
All Opinions
Multimedia
Photo Galleries
Podcasts
Videos
Classified
Place an Ad
Classified Listings
Garage Sales
Jobs
Jobs
Shop
Weekly Ads
Classified
Place an Ad
Classified Listings
Garage Sales
Jobs
Jobs
Shop
Weekly Ads
This day in history, May 3, 2016
share
Facebook
Twitter
| Subscribe
More Local
Asmussen: Custard Cup group leaves good taste
Two more swastikas found drawn in UI Armory
UI senate OKs adding courses on non-Western, minority cultures to required list
Urbana detectives turn to state crime lab for leads in 1988 stabbing
Login Options
Commenting
Login to comment or to shop for deal of the day or books.
Member Login
Login to your member account to read premium articles.
Username or e-mail: *
Password: *
Create new account
Request new password
Close
Home
News
Local
This day in history, May 3, 2016
Tue, 05/03/2016 - 7:00am | The Associated Press
Today is Tuesday, May 3, the 124th day of 2016. There are 242 days left in the year.
Today's highlight:
On May 3, 1791, the Commonwealth of Poland-Lithuania adopted a constitution.
On this date:
In 1515, Pope Leo X promulgated the bull "Inter sollicitudines" allowing the Catholic Church to review and censor books.
In 1765, the first school of medicine in the American colonies, the Medical School of the College of Philadelphia (now the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania), was founded.
In 1802, Washington, D.C. was incorporated as a city.
In 1916, Irish nationalists Padraic Pearse, Thomas Clarke and Thomas MacDonagh were executed by a British firing squad; they were among 16 people put to death for their roles in the Easter Rising.
In 1933, Nellie T. Ross became the first female director of the U.S. Mint.
In 1945, during World War II, Allied forces recaptured Rangoon (Yangon) from the Japanese.
In 1952, the Kentucky Derby was televised nationally for the first time on CBS; the winner was Hill Gail.
In 1960, the Harvey Schmidt-Tom Jones musical "The Fantasticks" began a nearly 42-year run at New York's Sullivan Street Playhouse.
In 1975, America's oldest operational aircraft carrier, the USS Nimitz, was commissioned.
In 1979, Conservative Party leader Margaret Thatcher was chosen to become Britain's first female prime minister as the Tories ousted the incumbent Labor government in parliamentary elections.
In 1986, in NASA's first post-Challenger launch, an unmanned Delta rocket lost power in its main engine shortly after liftoff, forcing safety officers to destroy it by remote control.
In 1999, some 70 tornadoes roared across Oklahoma and Kansas, killing 46 people and injuring hundreds.
Ten years ago: A federal jury in Alexandria, Va., rejected the death penalty for al-Qaida conspirator Zacarias Moussaoui, deciding he should spend life in prison for his role in 9/11; as he was led from the courtroom, Moussaoui taunted, "America, you lost." Armavia Airlines Flight 967, an Armenian Airbus A-320, crashed off Russia's Black Sea coast, killing all 113 people on board. Earl Woods, father of golfer Tiger Woods, died in Cypress, Calif., at age 74.
Five years ago: The White House said that Osama bin Laden was unarmed when Navy SEALs burst into his room at his Pakistan compound and shot him to death, a change in the official account that raised questions about whether the U.S. ever planned to capture the terrorist leader alive. Chicago's Derrick Rose became at age 22 the NBA's youngest MVP. Francisco Liriano pitched the major leagues' first no-hitter of the season, throwing his first career complete game in the Minnesota Twins' 1-0 victory over the Chicago White Sox. Actor-director Jackie Cooper died in Santa Monica, Calif., at age 88.
One year ago: Two gunmen were shot and killed by a police officer in Garland, Texas, after they opened fire outside a purposely provocative contest for cartoon depictions of the Prophet Muhammad. Aboard the International Space Station, Italian astronaut Samantha Cristoforetti fired up the first espresso machine in orbit, then posted a photo of herself on Twitter sipping from a cup designed for use in zero-gravity.
Today's birthdays:
Movie historian and TV host Robert Osborne is 84. Actor Alex Cord is 83. Singer Frankie Valli is 82. Sports announcer Greg Gumbel is 70. Sen. Ron Wyden, D-Ore., is 67. Pop singer Mary Hopkin is 66. Singer Christopher Cross is 65. Country musician Cactus Moser (Highway 101) is 59. Rock musician David Ball (Soft Cell) is 57. Sen. David Vitter, R-La., is 55. Country singer Shane Minor is 48. Actress Amy Ryan is 48. Actor Bobby Cannavale is 46. Music and film producer-actor Damon Dash is 45. Country musician John Driskell Hopkins (Zac Brown Band) is 45. Country-rock musician John Neff (Drive-By Truckers) is 45. Country singer Brad Martin is 43. TV personality Willie Geist (TV: "Today") is 41. Actress Christina Hendricks is 41. Actor Dule Hill is 41. Country singer Eric Church is 39. Actress Tanya Wright (TV: "Orange is the New Black") is 38. Dancer Cheryl Burke is 32. Soul singer Michael Kiwanuka is 29. Actress Jill Berard is 26. Actress Zoe De Grand Maison (TV: "Orphan Black") is 21.
Thought for today:
"Each day, and the living of it, has to be a conscious creation in which discipline and order are relieved with some play and pure foolishness."
May Sarton, American poet (born this date in 1912, died in 1995).
Sections (2):News, LocalTopics (1):People
More Local
Asmussen: Custard Cup group leaves good taste
Two more swastikas found drawn in UI Armory
UI senate OKs adding courses on non-Western, minority cultures to required list
Urbana detectives turn to state crime lab for leads in 1988 stabbing
More Local
Asmussen: Custard Cup group leaves good taste
Two more swastikas found drawn in UI Armory
UI senate OKs adding courses on non-Western, minority cultures to required list
Urbana detectives turn to state crime lab for leads in 1988 stabbing
Comments
News-Gazette.com embraces discussion of both community and world issues. We welcome you to contribute your ideas, opinions and comments, but we ask that you avoid personal attacks, vulgarity and hate speech. We reserve the right to remove any comment at our discretion, and we will block repeat offenders' accounts. To post comments, you must first be a registered user, and your username will appear with any comment you post. Happy posting.
Login or register to post comments
Latest News
Area history, May 3, 2016
Asmussen: Custard Cup group leaves good taste
Danville driver reports vehicle invasion
First up on retired federal judge's docket? A bit of golf
Gannett gets tough in bid for Tribune
Suit: Starbucks overfills its cold drinks with ice
This day in history, May 3, 2016
Service Club of the Week: Twin Cities Knights of Columbus Council 891
Savoy census needs volunteers
Chicago State a flawed but final shot at a degree
More Local News
Most Viewed News
6 charged with dismemberment in Ashley Gibson case
Arraignment in dismemberment case
Mother of victim: 'I know these people'
UPDATE: Illini all-star team of investors buys Jarling's Custard Cup
Danville doctor's license suspended
Most Commented News
Chancellor OKs mascot search
F&S noose incident prompts probes
No end in sight for Rush's case
UPDATE: Badly injured dog showing 'resilience' (w/video)
Street closures listing
Trending Now
UPDATE: Illini all-star team of investors buys Jarling's Custard Cup
Danville doctor's license suspended
40 years for Champaign shooter
Chancellor OKs mascot search
Jury quick to find Kelley guilty
UI student arrested over LSD found in room
It's time to apologize to our teachers
6 charged with dismemberment in Ashley Gibson case
Arraignment in dismemberment case
Study: Carle among 10 most profitable hospitals
Dan Corkery: Do you know what's under your property?
Radio
Newstalk 1400 WDWS-AM
Lite Rock 97.5 WHMS-FM
Classic Hits 107.9 WKIO-FM
Print
County Star
The Independent News
The Leader
LeRoy Farmer City Press
Mahomet Citizen
Paxton Record
Journal Republican
Rantoul Press
Magazines
At Home Magazine
Central Illinois Business Magazine
Customer Service
Help
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Frequently Asked Questions
Subscription Information
Quick Links
eEdition
Obituaries
Submit Vacation Stop
Staff List
Pay your Subscription
Buy a Photo
Send a News Tip
Submit an Announcement
Start a subscription now to enjoy our award-winning local news and sports coverage. Print, digital, or both-- we've got you covered.
Subscribe
Connect with The News-Gazette
1995-2015 The News-Gazette, Inc. | All Rights Reserved | 15 Main St., Champaign, IL 61820