site
Archive
eEdition
|
subscribe now
|
newsletter
|
sign in
classifieds
jobs
cars
homes
FEATURED
NEWS NOW
COLUMN: Trip to D.C. with WWII veterans humbles young O-D reporter
...
Hotel Utica closing, which was expected earlier, could come this month
...
OUR VIEW: New York shows the way
...
COLUMN: Trip to D.C. with WWII veterans humbles young O-D reporter
...
Hotel Utica closing, which was expected earlier, could come this month
...
OUR VIEW: New York shows the way
...
Mission accomplished: Area veterans visit D.C. war memorials
Dwayne Geary longingly drew his fingers along a monument engraved with faces of those lost in the Korean War. One of those could have been his. I'm glad I'm here and not there, the Clark Mills man said, looking up at his daughter Diana, who pushed his wheelchair. It could have been the other way.
Comment
By
Alissa Scott
Follow @@OD_Scott
Posted May. 2, 2016 at 12:01 am
Updated May 2, 2016 at 11:37 AM
Dwayne Geary longingly drew his fingers along a monument engraved with faces of those lost in the Korean War.One of those could have been his.Im glad Im here and not there, the Clark Mills man said, looking up at his daughter Diana, who pushed his wheelchair. It could have been the other way.Though Geary and the rest of the servicemen and women from World War II, the Korean War and Vietnam War stowed their combat boots away decades ago, around 80 of them from the Mohawk Valley and Syracuse area were given one last mission Saturday.They were invited to Washington, D.C., to visit the monuments and memorials erected to pay tribute to everything they fought for all those years ago. And a reporter and photographer from the Observer-Dispatch were asked to tag along.(Story continues below)Honor Flight began taking veterans to the nations capital in 2005 out of Ohio. Soon the mission spread across the country and to Syracuse in 2012.For no charge, the volunteer-driven organization flies veterans on a chartered flight from Hancock International Airport in Syracuse to Reagan National Airport in Washington. On Syracuses seventh trip
Mission 007
both pilots were veterans.Most of these guys were called to fight a world war, left their families, they left their jobs, they left everything they knew, said Honor Flight Syracuse President Randy Flath Saturday. Then when they came back, they dropped off their duffel bag and picked up their tool box and went back to work like it was expected. Just like nothing.But without their efforts, he said, Americans wouldnt enjoy the freedom they do today.Veterans, each accompanied by a guardian along with a fleet of nurses, made their way through the city by police escort, visiting the World War II, Air Force, Korean, Vietnam and Lincoln memorials, Arlington National Cemetery and the Tomb of the Unknowns along the way.The Changing of the Guards at the tomb was a special ceremony for veterans Saturday.The tomb is located in a silent zone at Arlington National Cemetery. For 24 hours a day, seven days a week, in rain and shine and snow, a guard stands watch.And they dont just watch over the tomb. They march a stretch of pavement in front of it, clicking their heels, squaring corners and checking their weapon in 27-hour shifts.When the shift switches, crowds of people gather to watch.You may notice the guard will drag his metal heel along the ground during the ceremony, David Xander, a D.C.-based tour guide, told a bus of Honor Flight veterans. Thats them saluting you. Technically, theyre not supposed to do it, but they want to salute you.During the ceremony, the guard told the crowd to stand and be silent. While most of the veterans remained in their provided wheelchairs, Jim Santamour, a Camillus man and World War II veteran, shakily stood to his feet. A U.S. Navy petty officer from Seattle, Brendan Mooney, secured the Marine Corps veteran, as he had helped the others throughout the day.Mooney said he started asking Honor Flight to adopt him in 2013 during the government shutdown. He heard some veterans were having trouble seeing the World War II memorial when the parks were closed, so he helped shift some barriers so they could get through.These guys are really the greatest generation, the 26-year-old said. They saved this country from communism, socialism and fascism. Theyre so humble, they dont realize how important they are.He said its important to listen to their stories, because in 20 years, therell be nothing left.Donald Wertz, a veteran from Rome, said while he would encourage other veterans to visit D.C. before its too late, it shouldnt just be them.Everyone, not necessarily just the vets, everybody should go to Washington and look over all the monuments that are related to the wars, said Wertz, who served during the Korean War era. I think that it would be well worth it.On the plane ride home, organizers pulled out an olive-colored canvas bag, stuffed to the brim with letters from local students, family members and friends. Each veteran would receive dozens of personalized notes thanking them for their service.And when their plane landed in Syracuse, not only were they greeted by a water canon salute, there were hundreds of locals waiting to welcome them home, too.Follow @OD_Scott on Twitter or call her at 792-5037.
Terms of Service
uticaod.com
Utica Directory
Featured Businesses
Loading...
Business Name
addressLocation, ST | website.com
Find Utica Attractions
Bars
Restaurants
Beauty Salons
Entertainment
Doctors
Medical Specialists
Contractors
Education
Lawn Services
Lawyers
Shopping
Travel
Tanning
Used Cars
Wedding Services
Add your business here +
Events Calendar
Connect with Uticaod
Facebook
Twitter
RSS
Back to top
Site Services
Contact Us
Subscriber Services
Classifieds
Submit Announcements & News
Market Place
Classifieds
Real Estate
Your Community News
Blotters
Herkimer County
Oneida-Verona
New Hartford
Rome
Utica
Oneida Indian Nation
Whitestown
Blogs - Living - Sports
Sports: Anne Delaney
Sports: John Pitarresi
Sports: Ron Moshier
Boilermaker
College
Pro Sports from AP
Propel Marketing
More Content Now
Find&Save
Mobile Site
Stay Informed
Email newsletter
Sign Up Today
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
Copyright 2006-2016 Gatehouse Media, LLC Some rights reservedPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service|Gatehouse Media Publications
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted. Uticaod | 221 Oriskany Plaza, Utica, NY 13501