About Cookies
We want you to enjoy your visit to our website.
That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience. By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies.
More info about cookies.
Accept & close
Business Directory
Local Info
Dating
Buy Sell
Book an Ad
Search
Enter your search below:
Register|Sign In
@Observer_Owl Follow Watford Observer on Twitter
Watford Observer Like us on Facebook
Watford 2.7c
News
Sport
Contact us
Photos
What's On
Jobs
Property
Announcements
Cars
JobsSearch JobsBrowse JobsFeatured jobsCV & career toolsIndustry SectorsAdvertise NowJobseekers
Jobs News
Join Us
Academia Ltd
Partners in Support
YMCA Watford
Graduate Sales Specialist | Job Details | Watford Observer
Search for more jobs
Graduate Sales Specialist
Recruiter BMS - Graduate
Posted 25th Apr 2016
Location Watford
Contractual Permanent
Salary 22,000 /Year
Sector Sales
Graduate
If you're keen on pursuing a career within graduate medical sales then this supplier of equipment for the NHS is offering a unique and exciting opportunity. Candidates with science based degrees looking to move within medical should apply immediately
Sector: Dermatological Products
The Role: After comprehensive training you will initially spend 3 days a week within the office with 2 days out for client visits. Talking to existing customers you will deal with consultants, clinicians, nurses and professional buyers promoting a range of dermatological equipment used in non- invasive surgery.
The Company: Growing at 10% year on year this is the ideal time to join an expanding company that wants to invest in the best graduate sale talent. Reporting into the National Sales Manager you will receive extensive training and one to one coaching.
Responsibilities as a Graduate Sales Executive will include:
Visiting broad range of healthcare professionals
Advising on best product solution
Selling capital equipment
Developing key accounts
For this Graduate Sales position, we are looking for individuals who meet the following criteria:
Graduate with a science degree
Team player
Hard working
Bright attitude
The Package for this Graduate Sales role:
22,00 Basic
Plus 3,000 Bonus
Smartphone
Requirements
Apply now
Fields marked with * are mandatory.
*Email
*First name
*Last name
Attach a CV
Personalise your cover letter
I would like to apply for the position of Graduate Sales Specialist as seen on Watford Observer. I look forward to hearing from you.
Send application
Mobile site
Contact Us
Subscribe
Photo Sales
Advertise
AdChoices
Archive
Topics
Announcements
Site Map
Exchange and Mart
Dating
Terms & Conditions
Contributor Terms
Cookie Policy
Privacy Policy
Copyright 2001-2015
This site is part of Newsquest's audited local newspaper network | A Gannett Company
Newsquest (London) Ltd, Loudwater Mill, Station Road, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire. HP10 9TY |3105111| Registered in England & Wales
Ipsoregulated
This website and associated newspapers adhere to the Independent Press Standards Organisation's Editors' Code of Practice. If you have a complaint about the editorial content which relates to inaccuracy or intrusion, then please contact the editor here. If you are dissatisfied with the response provided you can contact IPSO here