
How to Resolve Three Common Course Creation Fears. 
If youre new to the Social eLearning game, creating new content can be stressful. This is particularly true if youve never created courses before. Moving past these worries to design the perfect content can be hard, so here are some suggestions on how to deal with some common worries that you might be experiencing.Fear #1: Im not a teacher- what if I cant help people learn?Think back to the time you were being newly trained in the material. What would you have needed to know? What would you have considered most important? If youre preparing material for customers, or another group for which you didnt directly have to learn the material, think about what would be most useful for them to know. If you start with the crucial content and material, form can be easily changed.Something else that can help you ensure that your content is easy to understand is getting someone else to look over the material before posting it. They will be able to identify any rough spots or parts that may be unclear to people new to the material. You can also create quizzes to test learners retention of important points in the material, and if they dont seem to be getting it, review the material in order to ensure that the crucial message is coming across.Fear #2: Everyone will find my content boring.Before posting any content, ask yourself: if I were a learner, would I want to read this? If the answer is no, you should probably make some changes. One way to do this is to incorporate a variety of content types, such as videos and infographics, to provide some change in the way your learners have to process the information. This will ensure that theyre not just reading text off a screen for hours, and will keep them more engaged in the training process. Incorporating feedback and suggestions from your learners can also help you know if youre heading in the right direction. This can include comments within your social collaboration platform, questions received about your content, or comments in other modules if your social eLearning site is connected with a social intranet platform. One of the advantages of web-based training is that its easy to change content in response to demand or to learner feedback- so dont be afraid to make changes to ensure that your courses are the best they can be, and are fully engaging users.Fear #3: Im not enough of an expert in the subject to create this course.Take heart by thinking that there must be a reason that this task was assigned to you- someone has faith in you! If you dont feel confident writing about the topic, do some research online or using existing company training material. Dont be afraid to ask other employees, who you think have more experience in the field, for suggestions! People are generally flattered to have their expertise recognized, and will be happy to share their experiences with you to create the best courses possible.Uncertainty isnt always a bad thing- it just means that youre determined to do a great job on this new adventure. The crucial point of creating new courses is to keep your audience in mind, and think about what would be most useful for them to retain and learn. Plus, practice makes perfect. The more courses you work on and create, the more confident youll feel when working on future ones. Theres no need to worry- youll be creating amazing eLearning courses in no time!

