Jump to main navigationJump to main content
News Search
News
by eluta.ca
Search Jobs at eluta.ca
Jobs
Login
Register
18
Toronto
Subscribe
Help
AdChoices
Home
News
Opinion
Business
Investing
Sports
Life
Arts
Tech
Drive
Real Estate
National
Politics
British Columbia
Alberta
Toronto
World
Video
Home
News
World
In this Friday, Feb. 26, 2016 file photo, Murtaza Ahmadi, a five-year-old Afghan Lionel Messi fan plays with a soccer ball during a photo opportunity as he wears a shirt signed by Messi, in Kabul, Afghanistan. The father of Ahmadi says the family was forced to leave Afghanistan amid constant telephone threats. (Rahmat Gul/AP)
In this Friday, Feb. 26, 2016 file photo, Murtaza Ahmadi, a five-year-old Afghan Lionel Messi fan plays with a soccer ball during a photo opportunity as he wears a shirt signed by Messi, in Kabul, Afghanistan. The father of Ahmadi says the family was forced to leave Afghanistan amid constant telephone threats.(Rahmat Gul/AP)
Mideast
Threats force five-year-old Messi fan out of Afghanistan
Add to ...
Rahim Faiez
KABULThe Associated Press
Published
Tuesday, May 03, 2016 8:21AM EDT
Last updated
Tuesday, May 03, 2016 8:30AM EDT
Comments
AA
The family of a 5-year-old Afghan boy who received an autographed shirts from his soccer hero Lionel Messi was forced to leave Afghanistan amid constant telephone threats, the boys father said Tuesday.Mohammad Arif Ahmadi
whose son grabbed headlines when he was photographed wearing a homemade Argentina shirt with No. 10 on the back
said they have moved to neighbouring Pakistan and settled in the city of Quetta, hoping for a better life there.
Lionel Messi makes Afghan boy's jersey dreams come true (The Globe and Mail)
Life became a misery for us, said Ahmadi, speaking to The Associated Press over the telephone from Quetta. He added that the family didnt want to leave Afghanistan, but the threats were just getting more and more serious.Ahmadi said he feared that his son, Murtaza Ahmadi, would be kidnapped after becoming an Internet sensation after pictures of him wearing a Messi shirt made out of a striped plastic bag went viral.The family first travelled to the Pakistani capital, Islamabad, but couldnt stay there long because of the high cost of living. They later moved to Quetta.I sold all my belongings and brought my family out of Afghanistan to save my sons life as well as the lives of the rest of the family, the father said.Earlier this year, the Afghan soccer federation had promised to arrange a meeting between Messi, a UNICEF goodwill ambassador, and Murtaza. There were reports that either Messi would come to Afghanistan to visit the boy or that some other arrangement would be made, such as sending the boy to Spain, where Messi plays with Barcelona, or arranging a meeting in a third country.But none of the options worked out, Ahmadi said.Still, Murtaza hopes that one day he would be able to meet his hero, Messi, the father added.
More Related to this Story
Afghan boy in homemade shirt looking to meet Lionel Messi
Topics
Afghanistan
Comments
AA
Next Story
Arms Trade Treaty wont stop controversial arms deals, says UN disarmament chief
Tuesday, May. 03, 2016 8:29AM EDT
Tearful Pierre Karl Pladeau steps down as Parti Qubcois leader
Monday, May. 02, 2016 8:34PM EDT
Top Links: Manufacturing jobs aint ever coming back
Tuesday, May. 03, 2016 8:44AM EDT
In the know
Report on Business
The builder: How BCEs CEO George Cope cuts a deal
Life
A rich, grownup breakfast for Mother's Day
Life
The secret to eating a healthy, satisfying breakfast
ROB magazine
How Fairfaxs Prem Watsa prepares for market meltdowns
Athletics
Prince Harry and PM Trudeau start InvictusGames countdown inToronto
Most popular videos
Life
Obama embraces retirement in spoof video
Report on Business
Where can I buy expensive clothing on the cheap?
News
Fiorina takes tumble during Cruz campaign event
Report on Business
'It's dream crushing': University of Ottawa law student on being $150,000 in debt
Report on Business
First U.S. cruise ship in 50 years arrives in Havana
News
Controversial pop-up toilets proposed to fix this Australian city's pee problem
Life
The secret to eating a healthy, satisfying breakfast
News
Tearful Pierre Karl Pladeau steps down as Parti Qubcois leader
News
Trudeau tells story of his grandfather at Invictus Games launch
News
Clinton slams Trump's 'birther' movement against Obama
News
Personal chef: Prince fought sore throats, stomach pains
News
Britain's Prince Harry recruits Queen, Obamas for promo video
Highlights
Report on Business
In Hamilton, a Depression-era garden reblooms
Report on Business
PEI innovator shares her reading passion with others
More from The Globe and Mail
Globe Investor
Millennial breaks payday loan cycle: It was a struggle, Im not going to lie.
Life
Lives Lived: Helen Bernadette Hauk, 98
Most popular
May 3: Your daily horoscope
Snowbirds and travellers: If you need to buy U.S. dollars, nows the time
Seat class divide strongest predictor of air rage: study
Ontario urged to make doctors compensation public
Pladeau steps down as PQ leader, citing family concerns
More Top Stories
U.S. Business
Fiat Chrysler U.S. April sales rise 6% on truck, SUVs
Opinion
Senate cleansing is under way, and overdue
Hockey
Murray helps Penguins to 2-1 win over Capitals; Letang could face suspension
Video
Russell Crowe tackles a rare comedic role in 'The Nice Guys'
Talent
Stop making these excuses for the lack of diversity at your company
Inside the Market
Before the Bell: Economic woes to bruise stocks
Video
Sandusky: 'Much to say' about child-sex abuse conviction
Why Christian Bale says 'Knight of Cups' is like a song or a book
These bees are being recruited to save your strawberries from mould
Profit pain for more European banks
Photos
Elephants take a final bow in Ringling Bros. circus
Toronto Raptors beat Indiana Pacers in decisive Game 7
connect with us
Products
The Globe and Mail Newspaper
Newspaper delivered to your doorstep.
Subscribe to the newspaper
Globe Unlimited
Digital all access pass across devices.
Subscribe to Globe Unlimited
Globe2Go
The digital replica of our newspaper.
Subscribe to Globe2Go
Globe Email Newsletters
Get top Globe stories sent to your inbox.
Subscribe to email newsletters
Globe eBooks
A collection of articles by the Globe.
View the library
Advertise with us
GlobeLink.ca
Your number one partner for reaching Canada's Influential Achievers.
Or go directly to:
Newspaper
Magazine
Digital
Globe Alliance: extend your reach
Globe Edge: custom content
Classifieds
The Globe at your Workplace
Globe Corporate Sales
Globe Unlimited digital edition and Globe2Go e-paper group discounts available.
Learn more
Corporate financial data and content licensing for your organization.
Learn more
Or go directly to:
Report On Business Top 1000
DataStore essential business intelligence
Our Company
About us
Work at The Globe
Staff
Secure Services
Secure Drop
Staff PGP Directory
Customer Service
Contact Us
Customer Preference Center
FAQs
Customer Care website
Digital subscription services
Print subscription services
Change your delivery address
Vacation Stops
Globe Recognition
Special Globe events and offers for subscribers
Mobile Apps
News
NEWS APP
Available for download on the following devices
iPhone
iPad
Android
Blackberry
Other Sections
Appointments
Art Store
Births & Announcements
Corrections
Classifieds
Classroom Edition
Deaths
Newspaper Ads
Real Estate
Special Reports
Site Map
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Accessibility Policy
Community Guidelines
Globe sustainability
Editorial Code of Conduct
Copyright 2016 The Globe and Mail Inc. All Rights Reserved.
444 FrontSt.W.,
Toronto,
ON
Canada
M5V 2S9
Phillip Crawley, Publisher
Add to Watchlist
Add to Watchlist
We've run into a glitch. Please try again later.
We've run into a glitch. Please try again later.
x
Customize your reading font
XS
S
M
L
XL
The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog
The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog
The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog
The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog
The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog