Tuesday
May
03
2016
5:09 am
Home
Local News
State/National/World
Sports
Opinion / Letters
Business
Arts / Entertainment
Lifestyle
Obituaries
Calendar
Submit Event
Comics / Games
Classifieds
DJ Designers
Archives
Advertise With Us
About Us
GET THE DAY'S
TOP HEADLINES
DELIVERED DAILY
TO YOUR INBOX
FOR FREE
Sign up here
Read the Print Edition Here:
Read Archive PDFs:
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001
2000
Playoffs here again already
May 03, 2016, 05:00 AM By Nathan Mollat Daily Journal
The winter sports season did not end until March 26
the day the Serra basketball team won the Division II state championship.
Thirty-seven days later, its already playoff time again with the beginning of league, and in the case of boys tennis Central Coast Section, playoffs.
The CCS team tennis tournament kicks off Wednesday, but many of the other 11 spring sports embark on the quest for league tournament titles beginning this week, with baseball and softball to follow next week.
Badminton begins its league tournaments this week with the Bay and Ocean divisions holding separate divisional tournaments Tuesday and Wednesday, with the all-PAL championships at Aragon Saturday.
Swimming and track begin trials this week in all three major leagues: the PAL, the West Catholic Athletic League and the West Bay Athletic League. The PAL will again hold separate divisional trials in boys and girls swimming, with the girls trials at Woodside (Bay Division) and Mills (Ocean) Wednesday, and the PAL boys at the same locations Thursday. The all-PAL championships will be Saturday at Woodside.
The WCAL boys trials are Wednesday at Bellarmine, while the WCAL girls will swim Thursday at the same venue. The WCAL championships are at Bellarmine Saturday.
The WBAL trials are Friday and finals Saturday, both at Sacred Heart Prep.
On the track, the PAL trials will be held at Menlo-Atherton Friday and the championships next weekend. WBAL teams will meet at Palo Alto High School Saturday for their league trials, with the finals to be held next week, as well.
Baseball and softball enter their final week of the regular season with league tournaments looming for PAL and WCAL baseball, along with WCAL softball, beginning next week.
That means a glut of CCS playoffs games are right around the corner as the 2015-16 prep season rapidly draws to a close.
***
While having lunch with the family at a buffalo wings place, we were fortunate to catch on television one of the most inspiring performances youll see.
One of the big screens in the restaurant had on the Drake Relays, one of the most prestigious track and field events in the world.
Not only did it feature the top college track programs in the nation, it also includes Paralympic events and even masters events
for those athletes who compete on a national level, based on age group.
Lining up for the mixed 80-99 year old 100-meter sprint was 100-year-old Ida Keeling.
The rest of the field instantly pulled away from her and left her the last runner on the track
but, to be honest, it was more of a power walk.
But she kept going. After each step, a murmur came up from the crowded restaurant.
Cmon! Go!
Cmon!
As she neared the finish line, not only could you hear rising noise level in the stadium, it was rising in the restaurant as well.
When she finally crossed the finish line in a little over one minute and 17 seconds, applause erupted from the lunchtime crowd.
Its hard to complain about life when you see a woman like Ida Keeling living hers to the fullest.
Her time was a world record, but Im guessing its a pretty small pool of athletes
the 100+ club.
Keep on truckin Ida.
***
Russell Davis is running for a seat on the Clark County, Nevada School District Board of Trustees.
Why would I add a political bent to a sports column? Because Davis main campaign platform is to ban high school football in the nations seventh-largest school district, which features Las Vegas as its biggest city. He believes the sport is not conducive to developing adolescent brains. He has no problem with adults playing professional football, just kids.
In effect, however, Davis proposal would begin to work toward getting rid of the game altogether. If you extrapolate out, no football in high school means less players available for college, which means a smaller talent pool from which NFL teams can draw.
Of course thats a little far-fetched. In fact, I find it hard to believe this guy gets elected at all based on his platform. As one coach pointed out in a USA Today article, there are so many other issues facing schools. When a very small population of a student body actually participates in football, it would seem to make more sense to focus on other critical issues facing many schools.
I think his heart is in the right place. Who doesnt want to keep kids safe? But there has been tremendous advancement in the identification and treatment of concussions. Coaching staffs are much more cognizant of head and brain issues and there are movements underway to change the way players tackle.
There is a certain risk in playing football, and brain injuries are the biggest. But there are risks in everyday life and you learn how to lessen their potential impact
cross at the crosswalk instead of jaywalking.
But that doesnt mean a car still wont run you over.
Whether parents decide to let their child play football is their business, dont take away their right to make it.
Nathan Mollat can be reached by email: nathan@smdailyjournal.com or by phone: 344-5200 ext. 117. He can also be followed on Twitter @CheckkThissOutt.
Tags:
league, trials, football, their, track, saturday,
Other stories from today:
Athletes of the Week: Mills' Tulouna Langi, Julia Gibbs and Taini LivaiWeir, Lipinski to be Olympic correspondentsGiants rally back to get Cueto off hook in Cinci
Print this Page
|
Daily Journal Quick Poll
Is the cost of living in the Bay Area worth it?
Definitely yes
For the most part
Sometimes
Getting to be no
Definitely not
Our User Agreement
Our Privacy Policy
Home
Local News
State / National / World
Sports
Opinion / Letters
Business
Arts / Entertainment
Lifestyle
Obituaries
Calendar
Submit Event
Newsletter Signup
Comics / Games
Classifieds
DJ Designers
Archives
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
About Us
SiteMap
2016 San Mateo Daily Journal
San Mateo County employment ads