Skip to Content
Skip to Main Navigation
Skip to Information Links
Skip to Site Search
Skip to Footer
Skip to Accessibility Information
Home Page
Information Links
Sign in
Register
Bulletins
Advertise
Subscribe
Third SectorMainNet
Main Navigation
Search
Home
Jobs
News
Views
Knowledge
FR Week
Fundraising
Finance
Digital
Governance
Communications
Management
Policy
Big Stories
Email Bulletins
RSS Newsfeeds
Star Supporters
Good Practice
Webcasts
Surveys
Expert Reports
Research
Expert Hub
Careers
Fundraising Week 2016
Awards
Citizens Advice Scotland appoints firm to carry out governance review
03 May 2016
by Rebecca Cooney,
Be the First to Comment
The charity has taken on Deloitte to undertake the exercise after the advisory service body dismissed its chief executive for gross misconduct
Citizens Advice Scotland
Citizens Advice Scotland has appointed the accountancy firm Deloitte to carry out an independent governance review announced after the charity dismissed its chief executive for gross misconduct.
The charity, the umbrella organisation for the Citizens Advice bureaux in Scotland, announced the results of the tendering process to run the review a week after Margaret Lynch, its former chief executive, lost an internal appeal against her sacking.
In March, the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills withheld half the annual funding it provides to the charity and ordered it to carry out the independent governance review, according to reports.
The review, which will examine CAS decision making and governance structures, is due to report back with its recommendations for improvement in the summer.
Jon Turner, a CAS trustee and sponsor of the governance review, said: "We are delighted to appoint such a high calibre team to carry out this critical piece of work for CAS.
"The aim of our governance review is to ensure that our governance model allows CAS and the member bureaux to respond to the changing needs of society, and ensures that CAS can continue to provide the best possible service while ensuring good value for taxpayers money."
Jay Bevington, lead of Deloittes UK board of advisory practice and who will lead the review, said the company looked forward to working with the charity and wider stakeholders.
Lynch was suspended in September, pending an investigation, and dismissed in March for gross misconduct.
The charity has not released further details explaining why she was sacked, but in a statement confirming her dismissal after her appeal failed last month, the charity said it had begun reviewing all financial and risk procedures and controls, as well as creating new expenses and delegated authority frameworks to ensure that there were adequate controls over individual spend.
Share this article
Tweet
Related Articles
Government 'orders Citizens Advice Scotland to carry out an independent governance review'
Citizens Advice Scotland dismisses chief executive Margaret Lynch
Citizens Advice Scotland suspends chief executive Margaret Lynch
More on this Topic
Charity Commission begins statutory inquiry into Islamic charity Peacetrail
Ex-chief executive of aid charity banned from company directorships
Collapse of Kids Company 'could lead to more stringent checks on grants'
Shadow minister Anna Turley questions government on Prins anti-EU essay
Consultant Gareth Morgan urges rethink on CIO proposals
Before commenting please read our rules for commenting on articles.
If you see a comment you find offensive, you can flag it as inappropriate. In the top right-hand corner of an individual comment, you will see 'flag as inappropriate'. Clicking this prompts us to review the comment. For further information see our rules for commenting on articles.
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus
Follow us on:
Latest Jobs
Public Affairs & PR Manager
Royal British Legion Industries
Aylesford, Kent
Caseworker
Manchester Action on Street Health
Manchester, Greater Manchester
Senior Community Fundraising Manager
The Childrens Trust
Tadworth, Surrey
Corporate Fundraising Manager
Royal British Legion Industries
Aylesford, Kent with UK wide travel
Communications Manager
Polly Symondson Recruitment Ltd
Bristol (City Centre), City of Bristol
Search more jobs
Send me jobs by email
Third Sector Insight
Sponsored webcasts, surveys and expert reports from Third Sector partners
Charity trustees & risk management - planning for the unforeseen
Todays charity leaders have a lot...
Report: How do charities gain the support of major donors?
In austere times with continued government...
Choosing an online fundraising platform
This report reveals insights from a survey...
More Third Sector Insight
Expert Hub
Insurance advice from Markel
Video: Importance of watertight abuse cover
Recent abuse claims highlight the need for care organisations to have robust abuse cover, as this video from Markel shows
Help & Information
About Third Sector
Contact Us
Advertiser Information
Terms & Conditions
Privacy
Cookie Policy
Accessibility
FAQ
Editorial Complaint?
Subscription & Registration
Subscribe to Third Sector
Register
Free Trial
Subscriber web account activation
Acevo member registration
Third Sector App
News
News & Analysis
Big Stories
Star Supporters
Email Bulletins
RSS Newsfeeds
Channels
Fundraising
Finance
Digital
Governance
Management
Communications
Policy & Politics
Volunteering
Social Enterprise
Local Action
Good Practice
Knowledge
Fundraising Good Practice
Finance Good Practice
Governance Good Practice
Communications Good Practice
Management Good Practice
Expert Hub
Site Sections
Careers
Classified Advertising
Events
Awards
Partner Sites
Third Sector Research
Third Sector Jobs
Third Sector Volunteering
Business Charity Awards
Third Sector Awards
Haymarket Media Group Ltd. | Terms & Conditions