World News Publishing Focus by WAN-IFRA
www.wan-ifra.org
World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers
Mobile Navigation
Meta Navigation
Main Navigation
Search
Meta Navigation
About us
Membership
Contact Us
Press
My Account
WAN-IFRA Search
Main Navigation
EventsWorld News Media Congress
World Editors Forum
World Advertising Forum
World Publishing Expo
World Printers Forum
Ad Blocking Action Day
Newsroom Summit
Publish Asia
Digital Media Africa
Digital Media Asia
Digital Media Europe
Digital Media India
Digital Media Latinoamrica
WAN-IFRA India
WAN-IFRA Italia
WAN-IFRA Middle East
Zeitung Digital
Study Tours
Webinar Series
AwardsWorld Digital Media Awards
European Digital Media Awards
African Digital Media Award
Asian Digital Media Awards
Indian Digital Media Awards
LATAM Digital Media Awards
Middle East Digital Media Awards
Asian Media Awards
Certificate for standardised printing
Color Quality Club
World Young Reader Prize
Training
ConsultingDigital Media Consulting
Editorial Consulting
Newspaper Production
Executive ProgrammeseRev
InsightsResearch reports
Newsletters
Executive News Service
World Press Trends
World News Publishing Focus
Asian NewsMedia Focus
Tablet app
Media Transformation
New Revenue Streams
Distributed Content
Ad Blocking
Public Affairs & Media Policy
South Asian Newspaper Directory
Industry Updates
BlogsBusiness
Digital Media
Editors Weblog
Incubator
Press Freedom
Print Production
Media Policy
World Publishing Expo Blog
Press FreedomMedia Development
3 May World Press Freedom Day
Declaration of Table Mountain
Journalists Killed
Gebran Tueni Award
Golden Pen of Freedom
APN - Arab Press Network
RAP21 - African Press Network
News Literacy
Editors
Printers
Google's Richard Gingras on the win-win relationship with publishers
World News Publishing Focus
World News Publishing Focus
Your Guide to the Changing Media Landscape
Blog Navigation
Home
Business
Digital Media
Editorial
Incubator
Press Freedom
Print Production
Media Policy
Google's Richard Gingras on the win-win relationship with publishers
Richard Gingras, Googles Head of News, is on a mission to prove that the companys latest developments and initiatives are part of a genuine, mutually beneficial relationship with publishers.
Many people say we created AMP (Accelerated Mobile Pages) just to make friends with publishers," Gingras said during Digital Media Europe in Vienna yesterday. "There is an absolute mutual benefit in all this to create a healthier web. We couldnt be Google without the meaningful knowledge (from publishers) on the web. Its true that we have a deep engineering culture, but we realise that we have to engage with publishers in a very different way. But that is not something we just realised, we realised that a while ago.
AMP
more than just speed?
Google AMP is the open source project that Gingras insists is not just a Google project but indeed a collaboration of thousands of publishers, developers, associations and more. Some publishers working on the project have said that Google AMP is indeed about speed, but they and Gingras suggest its much more than that.
This is not just about speed, he said. Its more about how we approach the performance of the web, the mobile experience and also help to save the advertising ecosystem. Essentially, ad blocking is a symptom of the advertising ecosystem.
Learnings about audience engagement and impact:
Just a few months since AMP has been out, Google has indexed over 110 million Google AMP files.
Engagement: Gingras said its difficult to say how engagement increased using AMP, but the engagement metric I keep coming back to is that consumption increases dramatically if an article is loaded instantly. Researchers told us that 40% of articles will not get read if it takes 3 seconds to load.
Early data on ads: At first we thought there might be a dip in revenue in ads. But, we dont seem to be seeing that. Most specifically, ads on our business have seen: 10-30% increase in viewability; 100-150% in clickthroughs on ads Our best sense of that is that the reader experience is cleaner and faster.
Have also seen a 10-30% increase in effective CPMs.
We think there will be an uptick in profitability with actual use of AMP ads, and the use of AMP for ad landing pages.
Gingras said Google is creating an ad unit called the Magic Carpet that extends as you scroll along the page.
AMP was launched on Google News just two days ago. It features a carousel of leading stories, and if a story is AMPed, it features the lightening bolt. The page rankings on Google News has changed for the carousel, he said. But page ranks have never necessarily been based on scale as much as they are about respect and quality. You will find articles featured that are from smaller publishers as well as larger publishers, he said.
He said everything on WordPress is now immediately AMPed, and that Google is building out support for Drupal as well.
One of the secondary goals of the AMP project was to see how this open source project relates to proprietary platforms, i.e. Facebook. Larger players tend to get more attention on proprietary platforms and I find that unfortunate, he said. That goes against everything we are trying to achieve with AMP.
Monetisation question?
Obviously subscriptions and various business models have to be a part of the equation going forward for publishers
you cant rely just on advertising.
Gingras said from the outset of the project the group couldnt consider paywalls as an extra step in support or development. Great journalism should be paid for as well, we have publisher-side paywall support and will soon have client-side support.
DNI
In the last two months, Google announced the recipients for the first round of funding through its Digital News Initiative. Gingras said this is clearly a way to kickstart innovation and again, for Google to also learn from the publisher side.
In other news.
With another ancillary copyright battle pending in Belgium, Gingras was adamant about this course of action: Its a big mistake. When we shut down in Google News in Spain, clearly traffic to news sites went down.
Tags
ad blocking
distributed content
Google AMP
open source
open web
Author
Dean Roper
Date
2016-04-22 11:22
Add new comment
Bookmark/Search this post
Twitter
Facebook
Google
LinkedIn
Yahoo
Xing
WAN-IFRA Search
Business
Digital Media
Digital Media Event Blog
Welcome to coverage of Digital Media events.
Editorial
The World Editors Forum is the organisation within the World Association of Newspapers devoted to newspaper editors worldwide. The Editors Weblog (www.editorsweblog.org), launched in January 2004, is a WEF initiative designed to facilitate the diffusion of information relevant to newspapers and their editors.
Tags
advertising
analysis
audience engagement
business models
daily newspaper
digital media
freedom of speech
innovation
internet
investigative journalism
journalism
mobile
mobile publishing
newspapers
newspapers and democracy
online journalism
paid online content
paywalls
press freedom
safety of journalists
social media
tablets
World Editors Forum
World Newspaper Congress
World Publishing Expo
more tags
2016 WAN-IFRA - World Association of Newspapers and News Publishers
Footer Navigation
Home
Imprint
Privacy Policy
Login