Subscribe
Sign In
Register
Home
Subscribe
Buy E-N Merchandise
Contact Us
About Us
Advertise With Us
Subscriber Services
Place a Classified Ad
Privacy Policy
Site Terms of Use
Newsletters & Text Alerts
Find a Business in S.A.
News Archives
Brackenridge junior catcher feels a calling to the military,
Today in S.A. history
Community briefs - Southside Reporter
Holy Cross takes control early to secure 4-4A title
Local
News by Neighborhood
Texas
Obituaries
Traffic
Weather
Lake and River Levels
S.A. History
Guide to San Antonio
San Antonio Charity
Breaking News Video
Classifieds
Freshmans heroics propel Southwest past bi-district round
Sam Houston boys capture Region IV-5A track championship
Brackenridge junior catcher feels a calling to the military,
Today in S.A. history
US & World
Breaking News Anywhere
Border & Mexico
US
World
Health Care
Politics
Military
Track Flights
Strange News
Anti-abortion activist goes to trial over letter to doctor
Teacher sick-outs close most Detroit schools for a 2nd day
10 Things to Know for Today
Funeral will honor 6 of 8 victims in Ohio family shootings
Business
Local
Eagle Ford & Energy
National & International
Automotive News
Top Workplaces in S.A.
Technology
Business Features
Finance Features
Business Careers
Tech Features
Press Releases
From new to old, some of the gun safety features over time
Pioneer Energy Services books a $27.7 million loss, but beats
Appeals court rules against borrowers
The Wonder Woman and other power poses to raise your confidence
Sports
San Antonio Spurs
NBA
NFL
MLB
Soccer
Colleges
College Football
College Basketball
High Schools
High School Football
High School Basketball
Postgame Wrap: No call, but Spurs make no excuses in Game 2 loss
Postgame Wrap: No call, but Spurs make no excuses in Game 2 loss
Wild Spurs finish features botched officials' call, fan grabbing
Golf: Mondays high school results
Food
Restaurants
Food Voted Best in S.A.
Recipes & Cooking
Bars & Drinks
Snacks and Entertaining
Guide to Food in S.A.
Sponsored: Sip, Savor, Celebrate
San Antonio chef to cook at the White House for Cinco de Mayo
A James Beard award for S.A.? Wait until next year
Bohanan's bartender wins Patrn's Margarita of the Year contest
San Antonio chocolatier in final four of Spring Baking Challenge
Entertainment
What S.A. is Watching
Things To Do
Fiesta 2016
Rodeo 2016
Celebrity Buzz
Comics
Puzzles
Horoscope
Movies & TV
Music & Stage
Arts & Culture
Guide to San Antonio
Readers' Choice
Photos at S.A. Parties
Destinations
Ashley Sawyer, Catfish Alum, Dies at 23
Tobin announces theater, dance seasons
SA arts groups prep Big Give programming
13 things (besides the Spurs) to know about in San Antonio this
Lifestyle
Wedding Announcements
Bridal Ideas
Travel & Outdoors
Destinations
Health & Family
Senior Living
Home & Garden
Home Decorating
Trends & Style
Beauty and Fitness Tips
Better Living Tips
Gift Ideas
Pets
Green Living
'Millie the dumpster dog' is healing in foster care, Facebook
12 stylish rental cabins in Texas perfect for summer vacation
Who controls your medical and financial decisions when you're
The Legacy at Longue Vue
Opinion
Editorials
Commentary
Letters to the Editor
Columnists
Third & Ave. E
Editorial Cartoons
Josh Brodesky
Robert Seltzer
O. Ricardo Pimentel
Bruce Davidson
Maria Anglin
Gloria Padilla
Fiorina a smart choice for Cruz
GOP, millenials not seeing eye to eye
Lets look beyond Trump to those in pain
Your Turn: May 3
Cars
Car Tips and Help
News & Reviews
Vehicle Search
Car Features
Latest Car Reviews
VWs Passat sedan gets updated for 2016, bringing styling
Nissan Murano crossover returns for 2016 after getting a complete
Cadillac rolls out the all-new CT6 sedan, and one couple gets
Jobs
Salary Wizard
Top Workplaces
Career Features
Proposed rule would delay questions about criminal history
US consumer spending inches up in March
US economy struggles at start of election year
Homes
Home Search
Apartment Search
Land
Rentals
Open Houses
New Homes Search
Hill Country Living
New Construction
Real Estate Tips
Home Yard Tips
Home DIY
Kitchen, Bed and Bath
Home Decorating
Austin cliff-side mansion with granite bathtub hits market for
The 9 most expensive homes on the market in San Antonio
San Antonio architecture firm Lake | Flato honored again for this
Local developer amasses land along Broadway near The Pearl
Find&Save
MenuSections
http://www.mysanantonio.com/business/fool/article/Ready-for-Medicare-Not-Until-You-Read-This-7389638.php
Ready for Medicare? Not Until You Read This
Dan Caplinger, The Motley Fool
Published 6:02am, Tuesday, May 3, 2016
Image source: Medicare.gov.
Enrolling for Medicare for the first time is a milestone in your life, and most retirees come to rely on the healthcare coverage that Medicare provides. Before your 65th birthday approaches, however, it makes sense to do some planning to make sure that you'll be ready for Medicare when the time comes. Below, we'll look at some of the things you ought to know before you enroll in Medicare.
What types of Medicare coverage are available? When you become eligible, you'll have several different types of enrollment options you can choose from. The Traditional Medicare program involves signing up for a combination of three different types of programs. Medicare Part A covers hospital and other inpatient charges, and it's generally provided free of monthly premiums to those who worked long enough in jobs in which they paid taxes into the Medicare system. Part B coverage includes doctor visits and other outpatient services, and you'll need to pay a monthly premium for coverage there. Finally, Part D prescription drug plans are available separately, with many choices to let you pick and choose the types of covered medications that match up best to your health needs.
Alternatively, you can sign up for Medicare Advantage, also known as Part C. These plans are offered by private insurers, and they integrate the coverage that traditional Medicare offers into a single package. You can get Medicare Advantage plans that also include prescription drug coverage, or you can use a separate Part D prescription drug plan to supplement your Medicare Advantage plan.
How do I sign up? The Social Security Administration handles applications for Medicare, in large part because many people end up enrolling for both at the same time. If you've started getting Social Security benefits before you become eligible for Medicare, you'll often be automatically enrolled in Medicare effective on your 65th birthday.
If you don't want to claim Social Security when you get Medicare, you can choose the Medicare Only option on the Social Security Administration's online application website. The site will also give you the information you'll need in order to complete the application and get your Medicare benefits started at the time you want them.
Can I change my mind about Medicare coverage? Many retirees get very nervous about making choices about Medicare because they mistakenly believe that they'll never be able to change their minds. Indeed, the majority of Medicare participants don't make changes to their coverage over the years, even though they have the right to do so every year.
Medicare offers an open enrollment period that lets you make changes to your coverage. In particular, you can switch from traditional Medicare to a Medicare Advantage plan or vice versa, or you can switch between one Medicare Advantage plan and another. Open enrollment also lets you switch between prescription drug plans, picking a plan or provider that's more in line with your needs.
With that in mind, it makes sense to do an annual assessment even once you've been on Medicare for years. As your medical needs change, it can make better financial sense to make changes to your Medicare coverage. Otherwise, you're leaving money on the table.
Will I get special services when I first join Medicare? Everyone who joins Medicare is eligible for a free physical as a form of preventative care. The visit includes a review of your medical history, along with education and counseling about preventive services, including screenings, shots, and referrals for other healthcare services if needed. A vision test, calculation of your body mass index, and review of safety and potential risks for depression are also included. Thereafter, annual wellness visits are included in your coverage. By offering these services, Medicare tries to encourage retirees to take care of themselves and to try to catch potential health problems before they reach an advanced stage.
Medicare is important as part of your support mechanism in retirement. By being ready in advance, you'll be prepared to take full advantage of your coverage when it starts.
The $15,978 Social Security bonus most retirees completely overlook If you're like most Americans, you're a few years (or more) behind on your retirement savings. But a handful of little-known "Social Security secrets" could help ensure a boost in your retirement income. In fact, one MarketWatch reporter argues that if more Americans knew about this, the government would have to shell out an extra $10 billion annually. For example: one easy, 17-minute trick could pay you as much as $15,978 more... each year! Once you learn how to take advantage of all these loopholes, we think you could retire confidently with the peace of mind we're all after.Simply click here to discover how you can take advantage of these strategies.
The article Ready for Medicare? Not Until You Read This originally appeared on Fool.com.
Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.Copyright
1995 - 2016 The Motley Fool, LLC.
All rights reserved. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Latest Business News
Does This Upstart Pose a Threat to GlaxoSmithKline?
Better Buy Now: Nike, Under Armour, or Lululemon?
The Weak Oil Market Continues to Batter MRC Global Inc.'s...
Airline Earnings Look Great on Paper, Thanks to Oil
Forget Bluebird Bio, Inc.: These 3 Stocks Are Better Buys
Why Twitter Inc. Stock Dropped 11.7% in April
1 Fast-Growing Energy Dividend Stock Not Being Hurt by Oil...
6 Must-Read Quotes from Microsoft's Earnings Call
Warm Weather Continues to Cool Off UGI Corp.'s Earnings
Value Investing in Spring: 3 Stocks to Put on Your Radar in May
Ready for Medicare? Not Until You Read This
For Interactive Intelligence, the Future Gets Cloudier
4 Things You May Be Surprised to Learn Costco Sells
This is Why 2015 Was So Great for NVIDIA Stock
Apple Watch: A First-Year Win, but What About the Long Term?
Business Videos
Stay Connected
Most Popular
1
Sheriff: California mother connected to 'horrific' child abuse...
2
Sheriff: 8 children rescued, woman arrested after 'horrific'...
3
Thank you for subscribing
4
Texas teen ejected from carnival ride to her death at El Paso...
5
These were the 30 highest paying jobs in the San Antonio area...
6
Young fan traveled 3 hours to meet the San Antonio Spurs for...
7
Warrant: Slain pregnant Texas teen found with uterus removed
View Comments
2016 Hearst Communications, Inc.
Logo
Return to Top
About
Corporate Home
Careers
Advertising
Ad Choices
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights
Contact
FAQ
Newsroom Contacts
Purchase Photos
Place a Classified Ad
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Instagram
Subscribe
San Antonio Express-News
ExpressNews.com
iPad app
eEdition
Search Our News Archive
Manage Your Subscription
Hearst Newspapers
Copyright Hearst Newspapers, LLC