


Dwayne Johnson confirms he will be starring in 'Jumanji' reboot.
The Rock is ready to rock the upcoming "Jumanji" remake!On Friday, April 22, Dwayne "The Rock" Johnson took to Instagram to announce he'd be starring in the remake of the 1995 family film, "Jumanji," which was based on Chris Van Allsburg beloved children's book of the same name.The cuddly tough guy confirmed the news on Instagram, "It's official. We'll produce and deliver to a whole new generation a title that I love and is one of my all time favs: There's games you play for fun... then there's games that change your life. JUMANJI."The lovable actor also gave some deets about the upcoming film, writing, "Working on edging up an already very good script with my @sevenbucksprod team. Up next is meeting with our producer Matt Tolmach and director Jake Kasdan. Shooting starts this fall. Promise to deliver something cool and special... and not screw the whole damn thing up;). As always I'll keep you posted. Casting this should be fun!"It's OFFICIAL: Love this script! Big movie news that me and my canine gal Shang are excited to share;) To produce, create and deliver original properties to fans like HBO's #ballers to this summer's #CentralIntelligence is one of the best parts of my job.
But to take great properties that are beloved worldwide like #BAYWATCH and #RAMPAGE and have the opportunity reimagine their stories in dope new ways to a whole new generation is truly an honor. It's official. We'll produce and deliver to a whole new generation a title that I love and is one of my all time favs:
There's games you play for fun... then there's games that change your life.
JUMANJI
Working on edging up an already very good script with my @sevenbucksprod team. Up next is meeting with our producer Matt Tolmach and director Jake Kasdan. Shooting starts this fall.
Promise to deliver something cool and special.. and not screw the whole damn thing up;). As always I'll keep you posted. Casting this should be fun!
#JUMANJI #JungleLife #JustPressStart #SONYPicturesA photo posted by therock (@therock) on Apr 22, 2016 at 8:36am PDTThe original film was about siblings Peter and Judy Shepherd, who decide to play a magical board game that unleashes a world of adventure, danger and magic -- so that they can save a man who has been trapped by the game for decades. The film starred Bradley Pierce and Kirsten Dunst as the siblings and the late Robin Williams as Alan Parrish, whose childhood was stolen by the jungle-themed game.Last year, Sony Pictures announced that they would be making a "Jumanji" reboot. The "Jumanji" reboot kicked off last year after Sony Pictures announced the titles of several upcoming movies. The family friendly movie is set to swing into theaters July 28, 2017.But this isn't the only reboot that the 43-year-old actor has hitched his wagon to. The former wrestler is currently shooting the "Baywatch" movie, which stars Pamela Anderson, Zac Efron, and Priyanka Chopra, and he is also is adapting the video game, "Rampage," into a feature-length film.Who needs new ideas when you can just pillage old ones?!

