Subscribe
Sign In
Register
Home
Subscribe
Advertise with Us
Careers with Us
Contact News-Times
Newsletters
Digital edition
Terms of Use
Archives
FAQ
New Milford to pay new contractor $3M to clean up Century Brass
Newtown boys hold off New Fairfield to win lacrosse battle
Brookfield boys lacrosse avenges loss to Bunnell, wins third
State Police urge motorcycle safety
News
Local
Police Reports
Regional
National
World
Politics
Opinion
Science and Technology
Were you SEEN?
Sing much? You could win Hall & Oates tickets for local June 16
Longtime Danbury resident, civil rights leader to grace new $5
First responders descend on New Milford for search and rescue
Region 12 towns worry about state help for Agriscience project
Sports
Baseball
Football
Basketball
Hockey
Other
High School
UConn
College
High School Football
Danbury boys and girls track teams sweep OGrady Relays
HIGH SCHOOL ROUNDUP: Hatters rally past Wilton in baseball win
Green Wave bats stay hot in baseball win over Kolbe Cathedral
HIGH SCHOOL ROUNDUP: Bethel girls edge Immaculate in lacrosse
Business
Top Workplaces
Markets
Real Estate
Danbury, New Milford law firms merge
Danbury developer, philanthropist Ervie Bud Hawley
Primark to open Danbury location in June
Plans in place to improve downtown Ridgefield
Entertainment
Movies
Music
Arts
Television
Comics
Horoscope
Games
Lottery
100 years of King Features Syndicate
Broadway legend Betty Buckley brings cabaret to Ridgefield
Comic Greg Fitzsimmons at Mohegan Sun
Stamford-born, Rowayton-raised actor Treat Williams at Avon with
Living
Health
Home and Garden
Family
Religion
Travel
Food
Weddings
Engagements
2016 Connecticut Governors Tourism Award Winners Announced
Engagement: Berardi-Pessolano
Engagement: Vandergrift-Kaminsky
Engagement: Rizzo-Kaptein
Obituaries
Blogs
Classifieds
Jobs
Homes
Rentals
Cars
Find & Save
MenuSections
http://www.newstimes.com/business/article/CVS-Health-tops-Street-1Q-forecasts-7389645.php
CVS Health tops Street 1Q forecasts
Updated 8:40am, Tuesday, May 3, 2016
Photo: Lynne Sladky, AP
Image 1of/1
CaptionClose
Image 1 of 1
FILE - This Wednesday, June 17, 2015, file photo, shows a CVS/Pharmacy y Mas store in Miami. On Tuesday, May 3, 2016, CVS Health reports financial results.
FILE - This Wednesday, June 17, 2015, file photo, shows a CVS/Pharmacy y Mas store in Miami. On Tuesday, May 3, 2016, CVS Health reports financial results.
Photo: Lynne Sladky, AP
CVS Health tops Street 1Q forecasts
1/1
Back to Gallery
NEW YORK (AP)
Specialty drugs and retail expansions boosted CVS Health's first-quarter revenue by 18.9 percent, helping to offset higher costs and push results above Wall Street expectations.The nation's second-largest drugstore chain also confirmed its full-year profit outlook, though second-quarter forecasts are short of expectations.First-quarter profit fell 6.1 percent during the period to $1.15 billion, or $1.04 per share, mainly on higher costs associated with the acquisition of Omnicare and pharmacies at Target. Excluding certain expenses, the company earned $1.18 per share.
The results topped Wall Street expectations, with the average estimate of 25 analysts surveyed by Zacks Investment Research for earnings of $1.16 per share.The Woonsocket, Rhode Island-based drugstore chain and pharmacy benefits manager posted an 18.9 percent boost in revenue to $43.22 billion in the period, also beating Street forecasts. Twenty-six analysts surveyed by Zacks expected $42.98 billion.Revenue for the company's key pharmacy benefits unit rose 20.5 percent to $28.8 billion on a boost in claim volume and the sale of specialty drugs. Specialty drugs are complex medications that treat certain forms of cancer, multiple sclerosis and hepatitis C, among other conditions. They often represent treatment breakthroughs but can cost considerably more than other prescriptions.The claim volume boost of 22.6 percent comes primarily from new business associated with the year-ago buyout of Omnicare and the expansion into the pharmacy and clinic business of retail giant Target Corp.Meanwhile, retail revenue rose 18.6 percent to $20.1 billion, also benefiting from the Omnicare and Target additions. Same-store sales growth, another key indicator of retail health, rose 4.2 percent during the quarter.CVS Health Corp. leaders have said that they expect growth to pick up in the second half of this year, as the company integrates several important deals. It spent about $10 billion last year to buy pharmaceutical distributor Omnicare and another roughly $1.9 billion to take over the pharmacy and clinic business of retail giant Target Corp.The Omnicare deal gave CVS Health national reach in dispensing prescription drugs to assisted living and skilled nursing homes, long-term care facilities, hospitals and other care providers. CVS Health has said it expects its return from that deal to grow after it implements programs to manage costs and improve revenue.The Target business, which CVS Health is integrating, will push East Coast-centric CVS Health's presence into several markets west of the Mississippi.The company has also made a priority of adding MinuteClinics to its stores. Industry watchers expect brisk growth in these in-store clinics because they can be more accessible than doctor's offices, and they offer a less expensive form of care for relatively minor maladies. They also are expected to help ease problems with care access as millions of people are expected to gain insurance coverage over the next few years through the federal health care overhaul.For the current quarter ending in July, CVS Health expects its per-share earnings to range from $1.28 to $1.31. Analysts surveyed by Zacks had forecast adjusted earnings per share of $1.35. The company reaffirmed its outlook for full-year earnings in the range of $5.73 to $5.88 per share. Analysts expect, on average, earnings of $5.82 per share on $180.74 billion in revenue.CVS shares rose 95 cents to $102.40 in premarket trading about 90 minutes before the market open.____Elements of this story were generated by Automated Insights (http://automatedinsights.com/ap) using data from Zacks Investment Research. Access a Zacks stock report on CVS at http://www.zacks.com/ap/CVS_____Keywords: CVS Health, Earnings Report, Priority Earnings
Nominate Your Workplace
Is your office awesome?
View Comments
2016 Hearst Communications, Inc.
Logo
Return to Top
About
Careers
Advertising
Terms & Conditions
About Our Ads
Ad Choices
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights
Contact
Contact Us
FAQ
Today's eEdition
Feedback
Submissions
Connect
Newsletter Sign-Up
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Hearst Newspapers
Copyright
Hearst Media Services Connecticut, LLC