Subscribe
Sign In
Register
Home
Subscribe
Buy E-N Merchandise
Contact Us
About Us
Advertise With Us
Subscriber Services
Place a Classified Ad
Privacy Policy
Site Terms of Use
Newsletters & Text Alerts
Find a Business in S.A.
News Archives
Brackenridge junior catcher feels a calling to the military,
Today in S.A. history
Community briefs - Southside Reporter
Holy Cross takes control early to secure 4-4A title
Local
News by Neighborhood
Texas
Obituaries
Traffic
Weather
Lake and River Levels
S.A. History
Guide to San Antonio
San Antonio Charity
Breaking News Video
Classifieds
Freshmans heroics propel Southwest past bi-district round
Sam Houston boys capture Region IV-5A track championship
Brackenridge junior catcher feels a calling to the military,
Today in S.A. history
US & World
Breaking News Anywhere
Border & Mexico
US
World
Health Care
Politics
Military
Track Flights
Strange News
Anti-abortion activist goes to trial over letter to doctor
Teacher sick-outs close most Detroit schools for a 2nd day
10 Things to Know for Today
Funeral will honor 6 of 8 victims in Ohio family shootings
Business
Local
Eagle Ford & Energy
National & International
Automotive News
Top Workplaces in S.A.
Technology
Business Features
Finance Features
Business Careers
Tech Features
Press Releases
From new to old, some of the gun safety features over time
Pioneer Energy Services books a $27.7 million loss, but beats
Appeals court rules against borrowers
The Wonder Woman and other power poses to raise your confidence
Sports
San Antonio Spurs
NBA
NFL
MLB
Soccer
Colleges
College Football
College Basketball
High Schools
High School Football
High School Basketball
Postgame Wrap: No call, but Spurs make no excuses in Game 2 loss
Postgame Wrap: No call, but Spurs make no excuses in Game 2 loss
Wild Spurs finish features botched officials' call, fan grabbing
Golf: Mondays high school results
Food
Restaurants
Food Voted Best in S.A.
Recipes & Cooking
Bars & Drinks
Snacks and Entertaining
Guide to Food in S.A.
Sponsored: Sip, Savor, Celebrate
San Antonio chef to cook at the White House for Cinco de Mayo
A James Beard award for S.A.? Wait until next year
Bohanan's bartender wins Patrn's Margarita of the Year contest
San Antonio chocolatier in final four of Spring Baking Challenge
Entertainment
What S.A. is Watching
Things To Do
Fiesta 2016
Rodeo 2016
Celebrity Buzz
Comics
Puzzles
Horoscope
Movies & TV
Music & Stage
Arts & Culture
Guide to San Antonio
Readers' Choice
Photos at S.A. Parties
Destinations
Ashley Sawyer, Catfish Alum, Dies at 23
Tobin announces theater, dance seasons
SA arts groups prep Big Give programming
13 things (besides the Spurs) to know about in San Antonio this
Lifestyle
Wedding Announcements
Bridal Ideas
Travel & Outdoors
Destinations
Health & Family
Senior Living
Home & Garden
Home Decorating
Trends & Style
Beauty and Fitness Tips
Better Living Tips
Gift Ideas
Pets
Green Living
'Millie the dumpster dog' is healing in foster care, Facebook
12 stylish rental cabins in Texas perfect for summer vacation
Who controls your medical and financial decisions when you're
The Legacy at Longue Vue
Opinion
Editorials
Commentary
Letters to the Editor
Columnists
Third & Ave. E
Editorial Cartoons
Josh Brodesky
Robert Seltzer
O. Ricardo Pimentel
Bruce Davidson
Maria Anglin
Gloria Padilla
Fiorina a smart choice for Cruz
GOP, millenials not seeing eye to eye
Lets look beyond Trump to those in pain
Your Turn: May 3
Cars
Car Tips and Help
News & Reviews
Vehicle Search
Car Features
Latest Car Reviews
VWs Passat sedan gets updated for 2016, bringing styling
Nissan Murano crossover returns for 2016 after getting a complete
Cadillac rolls out the all-new CT6 sedan, and one couple gets
Jobs
Salary Wizard
Top Workplaces
Career Features
Proposed rule would delay questions about criminal history
US consumer spending inches up in March
US economy struggles at start of election year
Homes
Home Search
Apartment Search
Land
Rentals
Open Houses
New Homes Search
Hill Country Living
New Construction
Real Estate Tips
Home Yard Tips
Home DIY
Kitchen, Bed and Bath
Home Decorating
Austin cliff-side mansion with granite bathtub hits market for
The 9 most expensive homes on the market in San Antonio
San Antonio architecture firm Lake | Flato honored again for this
Local developer amasses land along Broadway near The Pearl
Find&Save
MenuSections
http://www.mysanantonio.com/business/fool/article/The-Weak-Oil-Market-Continues-to-Batter-MRC-7389775.php
The Weak Oil Market Continues to Batter MRC Global Inc.'s Earnings
Matthew DiLallo, The Motley Fool
Published 7:20am, Tuesday, May 3, 2016
Image source: MRC Global.
The oil market went from bad to worse during the first quarter, after the price of crude dropped below $30 a barrel and stayed there most of the quarter. That had a big impact on oilfield activity levels and the need for the equipment that MRC Global
distributes to the sector, causing a big slide in its financial results during the quarter.
MRC Global results: The raw numbers
Metric
Q1 2016 Actuals
Q1 2015 Actuals
Growth (YOY)
Revenue
$783 million
$1.3 billion
(39%)
Adjusted net income
($14.0 million)
$29 million
N/M
Adjusted EPS
($0.14)
$0.28
N/M
Data source: MRC Global.
What happened with MRC Global this quarter? MRC Global was hit hard by the oil market downturn this quarter.
MRC Global's revenue dropped 19% from just the prior quarter, pushing its year-over-year decline to 39%. Sales were awful no matter how they were categorized.
Sales by segment were led by a 38% year-over-year decline in revenue in the U.S., which slumped to $606 million. That was followed by a 46% decline in sales in Canada, which fell to just $64 million in part because of a $7 million negative impact from the weaker Canadian dollar. Finally, International sales dropped 44% to $113 million, with foreign currencies hitting sales overseas by $8 million.
Meanwhile, looking at sales by sector also showed that results were weak across the board. Upstream sales were hardest hit, plunging 58% to $231 million, though that was partially due to the sale of the company's U.S. oil country tubular goods product line. If adjusted for that divestiture, upstream revenue would have been down only 39%. Meanwhile, midstream sales slumped 27% to $278 million after sales to transmission customers plunged 44%. Finally, downstream sales dropped 25% to $274 million because of lower project activity.
Profitability plunged because of a combination of those weak sales and a highercost of sales resulting from the use of the last-in, first-out ("LIFO") method of inventory cost accounting.
That said, while the company reported an operating loss, its underlying business was profitable during the quarter. Adjusted EBITDA came in a $19 million, while cash flow from operations was $58 million. Both, however, were significantly less than the prior quarter.
What management had to say CEO Andrew Lane, discussing the company's results, said:
Despite a challenging first quarter, we remain focused on executing our strategy. We continue to retain and win customers, strengthen the balance sheet, manage operating costs and optimize working capital to align with current energy market conditions. The business continues to generate cash, having generated $58 million in cash from operations in the first quarter and in February, we closed the sale of our U.S. oil country tubular goods product line for $48 million. We also made additional progress under our stock repurchase program buying $38 million in stock during the first quarter. Combined with the share repurchases in the fourth quarter, we are halfway through our share buy-back authorization.
The first quarter was quite challenging for the oilfield equipment space. National Oilwell Varco
CEO Clay Williams said it best when he noted, "Oil prices and oilfield activity continued to plummet during the first quarter of 2016, causing our customers to cut spending to bare minimum levels." This bare-bones spending level is forcing National Oilwell Varco and MRC Global to intensely focus on keeping their costs in check to maintain a strong balance sheet so that both can get through the teeth of this down cycle.
Looking forward While we don't yet know how much longer this down cycle will last, National Oilwell Varco's CEO did remind investors that "better days lie ahead." That's simply because oil companies can't spend at their current rate forever and still meet global oil demand. This outlook thus provides hope that all the scrimping and saving that MRC Global is doing right now will pay off when conditions finally do improve in the future.
A secret billion-dollar stock opportunity The world's biggest tech company forgot to show you something, but a few Wall Street analysts and the Fool didn't miss a beat: There's a small company that's powering their brand-new gadgets and the coming revolution in technology. And we think its stock price has nearly unlimited room to run for early in-the-know investors! To be one of them, just click here.
The article The Weak Oil Market Continues to Batter MRC Global Inc.'s Earnings originally appeared on Fool.com.
Matt DiLallo owns shares of National Oilwell Varco. The Motley Fool owns shares of and recommends National Oilwell Varco. The Motley Fool recommends MRC Global. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.Copyright
1995 - 2016 The Motley Fool, LLC.
All rights reserved. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Latest Business News
Does This Upstart Pose a Threat to GlaxoSmithKline?
Better Buy Now: Nike, Under Armour, or Lululemon?
The Weak Oil Market Continues to Batter MRC Global Inc.'s...
Airline Earnings Look Great on Paper, Thanks to Oil
Forget Bluebird Bio, Inc.: These 3 Stocks Are Better Buys
Why Twitter Inc. Stock Dropped 11.7% in April
1 Fast-Growing Energy Dividend Stock Not Being Hurt by Oil...
6 Must-Read Quotes from Microsoft's Earnings Call
Warm Weather Continues to Cool Off UGI Corp.'s Earnings
Value Investing in Spring: 3 Stocks to Put on Your Radar in May
Ready for Medicare? Not Until You Read This
For Interactive Intelligence, the Future Gets Cloudier
4 Things You May Be Surprised to Learn Costco Sells
This is Why 2015 Was So Great for NVIDIA Stock
Apple Watch: A First-Year Win, but What About the Long Term?
Business Videos
Stay Connected
Most Popular
1
Sheriff: California mother connected to 'horrific' child abuse...
2
Sheriff: 8 children rescued, woman arrested after 'horrific'...
3
Thank you for subscribing
4
Texas teen ejected from carnival ride to her death at El Paso...
5
These were the 30 highest paying jobs in the San Antonio area...
6
Young fan traveled 3 hours to meet the San Antonio Spurs for...
7
Warrant: Slain pregnant Texas teen found with uterus removed
View Comments
2016 Hearst Communications, Inc.
Logo
Return to Top
About
Corporate Home
Careers
Advertising
Ad Choices
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights
Contact
FAQ
Newsroom Contacts
Purchase Photos
Place a Classified Ad
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Instagram
Subscribe
San Antonio Express-News
ExpressNews.com
iPad app
eEdition
Search Our News Archive
Manage Your Subscription
Hearst Newspapers
Copyright Hearst Newspapers, LLC