Subscribe
Sign In
Register
Home
Subscribe
Buy E-N Merchandise
Contact Us
About Us
Advertise With Us
Subscriber Services
Place a Classified Ad
Privacy Policy
Site Terms of Use
Newsletters & Text Alerts
Find a Business in S.A.
News Archives
Brackenridge junior catcher feels a calling to the military,
Today in S.A. history
Community briefs - Southside Reporter
Holy Cross takes control early to secure 4-4A title
Local
News by Neighborhood
Texas
Obituaries
Traffic
Weather
Lake and River Levels
S.A. History
Guide to San Antonio
San Antonio Charity
Breaking News Video
Classifieds
Freshmans heroics propel Southwest past bi-district round
Sam Houston boys capture Region IV-5A track championship
Brackenridge junior catcher feels a calling to the military,
Today in S.A. history
US & World
Breaking News Anywhere
Border & Mexico
US
World
Health Care
Politics
Military
Track Flights
Strange News
Anti-abortion activist goes to trial over letter to doctor
Teacher sick-outs close most Detroit schools for a 2nd day
10 Things to Know for Today
Funeral will honor 6 of 8 victims in Ohio family shootings
Business
Local
Eagle Ford & Energy
National & International
Automotive News
Top Workplaces in S.A.
Technology
Business Features
Finance Features
Business Careers
Tech Features
Press Releases
From new to old, some of the gun safety features over time
Pioneer Energy Services books a $27.7 million loss, but beats
Appeals court rules against borrowers
The Wonder Woman and other power poses to raise your confidence
Sports
San Antonio Spurs
NBA
NFL
MLB
Soccer
Colleges
College Football
College Basketball
High Schools
High School Football
High School Basketball
Postgame Wrap: No call, but Spurs make no excuses in Game 2 loss
Postgame Wrap: No call, but Spurs make no excuses in Game 2 loss
Wild Spurs finish features botched officials' call, fan grabbing
Golf: Mondays high school results
Food
Restaurants
Food Voted Best in S.A.
Recipes & Cooking
Bars & Drinks
Snacks and Entertaining
Guide to Food in S.A.
Sponsored: Sip, Savor, Celebrate
San Antonio chef to cook at the White House for Cinco de Mayo
A James Beard award for S.A.? Wait until next year
Bohanan's bartender wins Patrn's Margarita of the Year contest
San Antonio chocolatier in final four of Spring Baking Challenge
Entertainment
What S.A. is Watching
Things To Do
Fiesta 2016
Rodeo 2016
Celebrity Buzz
Comics
Puzzles
Horoscope
Movies & TV
Music & Stage
Arts & Culture
Guide to San Antonio
Readers' Choice
Photos at S.A. Parties
Destinations
Ashley Sawyer, Catfish Alum, Dies at 23
Tobin announces theater, dance seasons
SA arts groups prep Big Give programming
13 things (besides the Spurs) to know about in San Antonio this
Lifestyle
Wedding Announcements
Bridal Ideas
Travel & Outdoors
Destinations
Health & Family
Senior Living
Home & Garden
Home Decorating
Trends & Style
Beauty and Fitness Tips
Better Living Tips
Gift Ideas
Pets
Green Living
'Millie the dumpster dog' is healing in foster care, Facebook
12 stylish rental cabins in Texas perfect for summer vacation
Who controls your medical and financial decisions when you're
The Legacy at Longue Vue
Opinion
Editorials
Commentary
Letters to the Editor
Columnists
Third & Ave. E
Editorial Cartoons
Josh Brodesky
Robert Seltzer
O. Ricardo Pimentel
Bruce Davidson
Maria Anglin
Gloria Padilla
Fiorina a smart choice for Cruz
GOP, millenials not seeing eye to eye
Lets look beyond Trump to those in pain
Your Turn: May 3
Cars
Car Tips and Help
News & Reviews
Vehicle Search
Car Features
Latest Car Reviews
VWs Passat sedan gets updated for 2016, bringing styling
Nissan Murano crossover returns for 2016 after getting a complete
Cadillac rolls out the all-new CT6 sedan, and one couple gets
Jobs
Salary Wizard
Top Workplaces
Career Features
Proposed rule would delay questions about criminal history
US consumer spending inches up in March
US economy struggles at start of election year
Homes
Home Search
Apartment Search
Land
Rentals
Open Houses
New Homes Search
Hill Country Living
New Construction
Real Estate Tips
Home Yard Tips
Home DIY
Kitchen, Bed and Bath
Home Decorating
Austin cliff-side mansion with granite bathtub hits market for
The 9 most expensive homes on the market in San Antonio
San Antonio architecture firm Lake | Flato honored again for this
Local developer amasses land along Broadway near The Pearl
Find&Save
MenuSections
http://www.mysanantonio.com/business/fool/article/Forget-Bluebird-Bio-Inc-These-3-Stocks-Are-7389724.php
Forget Bluebird Bio, Inc.: These 3 Stocks Are Better Buys
Cory Renauer, The Motley Fool
Published 7:03am, Tuesday, May 3, 2016
Image source: bluebird bio.
Against the mosaic of young, clinical-stage, gene-editing, cellular-therapy biotechs, bluebird bio (NASDAQ: BLUE)stands tall, despite its disdain for uppercase consonants. It has produced some amazing results in small groups of patients with life-threatening diseases. As a result, it's raised enough cash to fund operations through 2018 before it might need to raise more.
I have argued that that Bluebird might sway the FDAto approve a lentiviral-vector derived product without data from a single, randomized, blinded, and controlled study -- the sort of data it always demands when considering new therapies for diseases with existing treatments -- but it's in an extremely limited indication. The odds of subsequent approvals for larger indications that could launch the company into profitability, before it requires more financing, are awfully long for my level of risk tolerance.
Warren Buffett has two golden rules of investing:
No. 1: Never lose money.
No. 2: Never forget rule No. 1.
If you follow those rules, you'll want to forget bluebird bio for the moment and focus on companies that are already producing steady profits.
If Bluebird's explosive potential is what caught your fancy, the good news is that moon-shootersMerck & Co, (NYSE: MRK)andBiogen (NASDAQ: BIIB) are producing profits, and Vertex Pharmaceuticals (NASDAQ: VRTX)is nearly profitable. An investment now in any one of these three could lead to big gains if their moonshots reach their targets. More importantly, they probably won't lead to long-term losses if they happen to miss.
Merck: Collaborations galoreMerck's Keytruda blocks tumor cells from using the PD-1 pathway to "hide" from the immune system. Since winning approval in September 2014, it's expanded its label twice. The latest expansion approved last December made it available to all advanced, yet untreated, melanoma patients.
Merck isn't about to stop here. It has the drug in more than 200 clinicaltrials and more than 100 combinations in over 30 tumor types.An example of such combinations is a phase 3 study of Keytruda in combination withIncyte's IDO1 inhibitor, epacadostat, in melanoma last October.
While the two agreed not to combine PD-1 blockers and IDO1 inhibitorsin melanoma,this January, Merck used some of the $11.1 billion in free-cash-flow generated last yearto buy a private U.K. company with an IDO1 inhibitor among other candidates.Now Merck has its own IDO1 inhibitors to combine with Keytruda in whatever indication it likes, except melanoma, and doesn't have to share sales with anyone if it gets them to work.
Keytruda sales reached $524 million in its first full year on the market, and I'll be surprised if it doesn't at least double this year. If just a handful of those combination studies in other tumor types lead to further label expansions, Keytruda could boost the company's annual sales of $39.5 billion last yearby more than $10 billion in the years ahead.
Biogen: Alzheimer's ambitionsWhile Merck is the safest alternative to Bluebird, the $3.3 billion Biogen generated in free-cash-flow over the past yeargives it plenty to spend on its Alzheimer's disease moonshot, without breaking the bank if it fails.
Its best shot at the moment are a pair of phase 3 trials under way with aducanumab, a protein that binds to small bunches of amyloid-. This very short amino acid sequence has big implications in Alzheimer's disease progression when it aggregates into dense plaques -- at least that's the prevailing hypothesis.
Should the aducanumab trials fail, there's a chance combining it with Eisaipartnered BACE inhibitor E2609 may provide a solution.
From an investor's standpoint, a win for Biogen's Alzheimer's programs would be a lot of icing on an already big cake. First-quarter earnings per share grew 27%, compared with the same period last year, to $4.43 per share. The Alzheimer's Association estimates that the disease, and other dementias, will cost the U.S. $236 billion this year. Launching the first treatment that slows progression of Alzheimer's disease could double Biogen's annual sales of about $10.8 billion last year.
Vertex: Thriving in a space that scared others awayThere are about 2,000 known mutations in the CFTR gene that leads to more than 75,000cases of cystic fibrosis in patients throughout North America, Europe, and Australia. In decades past, big drugmakers avoided complex diseases such as these. About 27 years ago, that mentality pushed Joshua Boger to leave Merck and begin a new kind of pharmaceutical company undaunted by such challenges.
Image source: Vertex Pharmaceuticals.
He watches from the boardroom these days, but Boger's spirit lives on. Over the past few years Vertex has brought Kalydeco and Orkambi -- the only drugs that treat the underlying cause of cystic fibrosis -- to over 25,000 patients.
It aims to treat them all and is largely unopposed. Orkambi, indicated for 20,500 patients, didn't hit pharmacy shelves anywhere until approved by the FDA last July, but annual product sales more than doubled to over $1 billion last year.
Even though Vertex is spending immense sums to speed treatments to the remaining 50,000 cystic fibrosis patients, the company is largely expected to reach a level of sustainable profitability this year.
With Vertex shares trading at about 52-times forward earnings, it's the riskiest of these three alternatives to bluebird bio. Given its dominance of the cystic fibrosis space and room to grow, I'd say it's a far safer bet in the long-run.
If they failBluebird is swimming in uncharted waters surrounded by similar early-stage competitors, and it has no positive revenue with which to calculate traditional valuation metrics. If its lentiviral-vector based programs fail to impress regulators and/or healthcare providers, you might never recover the losses.
At about 15 times forward earnings, Merck and Biogen are trading lower than the average stock in theS&P 500.If their moonshots fail, they only need to become "average" and you'll still outperform the market.
A secret billion-dollar stock opportunity The world's biggest tech company forgot to show you something, but a few Wall Street analysts and the Fool didn't miss a beat: There's a small company that's powering their brand-new gadgets and the coming revolution in technology. And we think its stock price has nearly unlimited room to run for early in-the-know investors! To be one of them, just click here.
The article Forget Bluebird Bio, Inc.: These 3 Stocks Are Better Buys originally appeared on Fool.com.
Cory Renauer has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool owns shares of and recommends Vertex Pharmaceuticals. The Motley Fool recommends Biogen and Bluebird Bio. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.Copyright
1995 - 2016 The Motley Fool, LLC.
All rights reserved. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Latest Business News
Does This Upstart Pose a Threat to GlaxoSmithKline?
Better Buy Now: Nike, Under Armour, or Lululemon?
The Weak Oil Market Continues to Batter MRC Global Inc.'s...
Airline Earnings Look Great on Paper, Thanks to Oil
Forget Bluebird Bio, Inc.: These 3 Stocks Are Better Buys
Why Twitter Inc. Stock Dropped 11.7% in April
1 Fast-Growing Energy Dividend Stock Not Being Hurt by Oil...
6 Must-Read Quotes from Microsoft's Earnings Call
Warm Weather Continues to Cool Off UGI Corp.'s Earnings
Value Investing in Spring: 3 Stocks to Put on Your Radar in May
Ready for Medicare? Not Until You Read This
For Interactive Intelligence, the Future Gets Cloudier
4 Things You May Be Surprised to Learn Costco Sells
This is Why 2015 Was So Great for NVIDIA Stock
Apple Watch: A First-Year Win, but What About the Long Term?
Business Videos
Stay Connected
Most Popular
1
Sheriff: California mother connected to 'horrific' child abuse...
2
Sheriff: 8 children rescued, woman arrested after 'horrific'...
3
Thank you for subscribing
4
Texas teen ejected from carnival ride to her death at El Paso...
5
These were the 30 highest paying jobs in the San Antonio area...
6
Young fan traveled 3 hours to meet the San Antonio Spurs for...
7
Warrant: Slain pregnant Texas teen found with uterus removed
View Comments
2016 Hearst Communications, Inc.
Logo
Return to Top
About
Corporate Home
Careers
Advertising
Ad Choices
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights
Contact
FAQ
Newsroom Contacts
Purchase Photos
Place a Classified Ad
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Instagram
Subscribe
San Antonio Express-News
ExpressNews.com
iPad app
eEdition
Search Our News Archive
Manage Your Subscription
Hearst Newspapers
Copyright Hearst Newspapers, LLC