Login
All
Reviews
Editorials
Forums
News
Three Ways to Protect your Apple Watch (and One Way Not To)
Bob LeVitus Will Present at SMMUG in Colorado Springs on May 9th
FBI Director in the Dark on iPhone Hack Details
Tips
TMOs Guide to Buying Discounted iTunes Cards
Changing Your Wi-Fi Channel for Improved Speed
Podcasts
TMO Background Mode: Interview With Intel Fellow Dr. Bruce Horn
TMO Daily Observations 2016-05-02: Apples Next Big Thing, Icahns $AAPL Selloff
View All Results
SolarTab Portable Solar Panel is a Bright Spot in Outdoor Charging Solutions
With cheap high-capacity external batteries abounding, is there still a
Griffins BreakSafe USB-C Cable Replicates MagSafe For the Apple MacBook
When Apple introduced the new MacBook in early 2015, with
Minix Neo C USB-C Multiport Adapter (Dock) Includes VGA or HDMI
The Minix Neo C USB-C "Multiport Adapter" is dock for
OWCs USB-C Dock Has a Complete Set of Ports and is Fully Powered
There are now small, unpowered USB-C hubs or docks that
Satechi Presenter Combines Laser Pointer With Slide Controller
The just released Satechi Aluminum Wireless Presenter is a beautifully
View All Reviews
Three Ways to Protect your Apple Watch (and One Way Not To)
Apples Failure to Scale
An Open Letter to Phil Schiller about iPhones, iPads, and Macs
New Products Apple Might Give Us While We Wait for the Car
Carl Icahn Isnt Wrong about Apple in China
View All Editorial Results
Are You Keeping Your Apple Music Subscription?
Last post: 7 months, 1 week, 2 days, 22 hours, 18 minutes ago by Bob LeVitus
2 posts
Viewing Drive space in Yoesmite
Last post: 7 months, 1 week, 4 days, 14 hours, 41 minutes ago by khotten
3 posts
RAM Upgrade or iMac Upgrade?
Last post: 7 months, 1 week, 4 days, 16 hours, 38 minutes ago by damorrison
4 posts
iOS Wireless Network Switching
Last post: 7 months, 1 week, 4 days, 19 hours, 53 minutes ago by damorrison
1 posts
MacBook pro retina laptop
Last post: 7 months, 4 weeks, 1 day, 5 hours, 36 minutes ago by ieatapplez
1 posts
Go to Forums
Apples Failure to Scale
John Kheit
May 3rd, 2016 8:00 AM EDT | The Devil's Advocate
Apple is about to cross into a cycle of decline if we do not see some significant updates across the board. Right now Apple is a company not producing. If you look back at, say 2008, while the company was still under Steve Jobs, it was pretty much regularly and annually updating all Macs, operating systems, peripherals, iPods, even meaningful updates to its iLife/iWork suites as well as the iPhone and its software.
Since then Apple has about quadrupled its work force, but it hasnt quadrupled product output. If anything, product output seems to have gone down. Theyve killed lots and lots of features across the line. They killed Aperture. There hasnt been a meaningful or substantial update to iLife or iWork in years, and in fact theyve reduced its features. iTunes has bloated into a menace that would even make Microsoft blush.
How about the Mac, its an embarrassment of inactivity. Apple hasnt updated its Cinema Display since September of 2011, and hasnt updated its top of the line Mac Pro since December 2013. Even its most up to date iMac is sporting a pathetic maximum-sized 3TB hard drive when you can get 8TB drives for about $200.
Right now, it seems Apple just cannot get anything out the door. They havent bothered to update so many of their machines (even with deminimus speed bumped processors), I guess, because either theyre incapable or they dont care. And thats a problem. A big one.
Again?
And it brings to mind my real fear here. What the heck is Apple doing? It has more people than ever and more resources than ever, yet is producing less than ever. What are all those people doing? Why does it appear that Apple is failing to scaleits doing less with more.
This reminds me how after Steve Jobs was kicked out of Apple, CEO John Sculley actually increased revenues at Apple for the first few years. Apple was at the top of the PC game. All until there was no vision or meaningful updates, and then Apple went into decline and neared bankruptcy before Steve came back and saved the company with his NeXT technology vision.
A lot of people say Apple makes most of its money on the iPhone, so it doesn't really need to make the Mac (or trucks as Steve Jobs once called them). But all those people are wrong. Along with Steve Jobs, it was the creative professionals and the techno elite who saved Apple. They were convinced that having a clean unix on the desktop was cool, and they bought Macs. Later, they bought iPods that their kids thought were cool and went and spread the halo effect.
They were the shepherds that guided the flock. And those people are leaving Apple in droves right now. Why? Because Macs are so stale and old. They simply are not competitive for power users and creative professionals. Dont believe me? On the next page I'll explore some reactions from power usersMac power usersthat are out there right now.
Next: Mac Power Users and Creative Pros Turning Elsewhere
Pages:
1
2
3
Next
The Mac Observer Spin The Mac Observer Spin is how we show you what our authors think about a news story at quick glance. Read More
Tweet
Popular TMO Stories
New Products Apple Might Give Us While We Wait for the Car
SolarTab Portable Solar Panel is a Bright Spot in Outdoor Charging Solutions
Changing Your Wi-Fi Channel for Improved Speed
Apple Misses Wall Street Estimates on Earnings, iPhone, Mac, and Raises Dividend
87581John Kheitthe_devils_advocate01462276800
No Comments
Log in to comment (TMO, Twitter or Facebook) or Register for a TMO account
Support TMO
Support TMO, Buy from Amazon, MacMall and The Apple Store
We can send you information in a couple of ways. Push Notifications come through instantly. The TMO Express Newsletter emails you the latest Apple headlines every weekday.
NewsletterPush Notifications
Featured Editorials
Apple's Failure to Scale
John Kheit | May 03, 2016
FBI Shows Fingerprints and Touch ID Aren't Warrant-proof
Jeff Gamet | May 02, 2016
TMO Weekly Sponsor
Have a tech question? Visit our Mac Geek Gab Facebook Group and have the tech support brilliance of the entire Mac Geek Gab community at your fingertips!
Sponsors
AAPL Stock Price Apple Finance Board
$93.64 -0.10 (-0.11%)
Quotes are delayed. Currency in USD.
Recent News
Popular
Three Ways to Protect your Apple Watch (and One Way Not To)10-26-15
Bob LeVitus Will Present at SMMUG in Colorado Springs on May 9th05-02-16
FBI Director in the Dark on iPhone Hack Details04-29-16
House Passes Email Search Warrant Bill04-28-16
CareKits Strong Suit may be Peer Support Apps04-28-16
New Products Apple Might Give Us While We Wait for the Car04-29-16
SolarTab Portable Solar Panel is a Bright Spot in Outdoor Charging Solutions04-29-16
Changing Your Wi-Fi Channel for Improved Speed04-29-16
Tim Cook Worked Hard to Sell Us on Apples Future while CFO Luca Maestri Apologized04-26-16
Apple Misses Wall Street Estimates on Earnings, iPhone, Mac, and Raises Dividend04-26-16
Sponsors
TMO Deals
Reader Specials
Support TMO, Buy from Amazon, MacMall and The Apple Store
Recent News See All
Three Ways to Protect your Apple Watch (and One Way Not To)
Bob LeVitus Will Present at SMMUG in Colorado Springs on May 9th
FBI Director in the Dark on iPhone Hack Details
House Passes Email Search Warrant Bill
CareKits Strong Suit may be Peer Support Apps
Popular Stories See All
New Products Apple Might Give Us While We Wait for the Car
SolarTab Portable Solar Panel is a Bright Spot in Outdoor Charging Solutions
Changing Your Wi-Fi Channel for Improved Speed
Tim Cook Worked Hard to Sell Us on Apples Future while CFO Luca Maestri Apologized
Apple Misses Wall Street Estimates on Earnings, iPhone, Mac, and Raises Dividend
Recent Editorials See All
Three Ways to Protect your Apple Watch (and One Way Not To)
An Open Letter to Phil Schiller about iPhones, iPads, and Macs
New Products Apple Might Give Us While We Wait for the Car
Carl Icahn Isnt Wrong about Apple in China
Dr. Macs Deeper Look into Budget-Priced VR Headsets
Navigation
News
Reviews
Tutorials
Podcasts
Forums
Contact
Categories
TMO Deals
Columns
Editorials
Quick Tips
Apple Death Knells
View All Categories
Archive
2014 Archive
2013 Archive
2012 Archive
2011 Archive
2010 Archive
View Full Archive
Connect with Us
Twitter
Facebook
Google+
Podcast Directory
Author Directory
.(JavaScript must be enabled to view this email address)
The Mac Observer, Inc. -- All rights reserved. All information presented on this site is copyrighted by The Mac Observer, Inc. except where otherwise noted. No portion of this site may be copied without express written consent. Other sites are invited to link to any aspect of this site provided that all content is presented in its original form and is not placed within another frame. The Mac Observer is an independent publication and has not been authorized, sponsored, or otherwise approved by Apple, Inc.