Search
Fantasy Football
News & Media
Video
Scores
Schedules
Standings
Stats
Watch NFL Games Live
Tickets
Shop
Fans
health & safety
En Espaol
Mobile
NFL Now
NFL Network
Around the NFL
Alfred Morris has no regrets signing with Cowboys despite Elliott pick
By Kevin Patra
Around the NFL writer
Published:
May 3, 2016 at 08:32 a.m.
Updated:
May 3, 2016 at 08:37 a.m.
Friend(s) Email
Your Email
Send Email
By Kevin Patra
Alfred Morris has no regrets signing with Cowboys despite Elliott pick
Faith in Mark
More Columns >
Alfred Morris was one of many veteran players aversely affected by the selection of a high draft pick.
When the fifth-year back signed with the Dallas Cowboys it was assimed he'd get snaps spelling an often-injured Darren McFadden. Now, he's been shuffled even further down the depth chart.
After the Cowboys selected Ezekiel Elliott with the No. 4 overall pick, the discussion has been about the rookie carrying the load. McFadden will shift to a backup role when the rookie needs a breather. Lance Dunbar pretty much has third-down and passing situations on lock.
So where does that leave Morris? The free agent signee might need an injury to occur just to see the Sunday roster this season -- teams rarely dress three running backs who don't play special teams.
Yet, Morris doesn't regret signing with the Cowboys this offseason.
"None at all," he said, via the team's official website. "This is where I'm supposed to be, and I'm excited about the opportunity and looking forward to it."
Morris' market wasn't exactly scintillating this offseason before he signed with the Cowboys. The tailback added that competition for carries is nothing new.
"I get used to that, man," Morris said. "When I was at the Redskins, every year they drafted another running back."
Even after Morris' sensational rookie season in 2012, the Redskins continued to stockpile competition for the sixth-round pick. In 2013 Washington selected Chris Thompson (5th round) and Jawan Jamison (7th). In 2014 they added Lache Seastrunk (6th). Last year they spent a third-rounder on Matt Jones, who takes over the starting gig after the Redskins let Morris walk in free agency.
None of those back came with Elliott's pedigree, talent or standing as a high first-round choice. Morris said he's glad a running backs went in the top 10 back-to-back years, because it dashes the notion that the position is devalued in today's NFL.
"I'm excited, because I'm very biased toward running backs. They try to devalue us," he said. "So it was a dry spell until last year that running backs weren't even going in the first round. So a running back going in the first round now, I'm excited -- two years in a row now."
Sadly, for Morris, this year's first rounder likely makes him superfluous for the 2016 season.
Previous Article
#{comments_count} Comment#{comments_plural} |
#{recommendations_count} Recommendation#{recommendations_plural} |
E-mail
Fan Discussion
View all comments
Previous Article
Latest
Alfred Morris has no regrets signing with Cowboys despite Elliott pick
Sanchez thrilled that Broncos didn't add veteran QB
Moritz Boehringer signs rookie contract with Vikings
Jets GM keeps door open for Hackenberg debut in 2016
Collateral Damage: 20 veterans hurt by 2016 NFL Draft
Connor Barth cut after Buccaneers draft kicker
Chris Culliver released by Washington Redskins
Seahawks GM: Nobody is going to wear Lynch's No. 24
Kirk Cousins to prove he deserves long-term deal
Burning roster needs not filled by the draft: Offense
Subscribe
More Posts
Photo Gallery
History made in Chicago
A new chapter of NFL draft history has been written, including a Heisman party in Tennessee and a historic weekend for the Buckeyes. View
NFL.com
Official Tweets
{from_user}:{text}
MORE TWEETS
Information
Contact Us
FAQ | Rule Book
Public Relations
Jobs: League | Team
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
Accessibility
Initiatives
NFL Rush
Play 60
In the Community
NFL Auction
Media Info
NFL Communications
Media Kit
Media Guides
Record & Fact Book
Player Services
NFL Health & Safety
NFL Legends Community
NFL Player Care
Player Engagement
NFL Alumni Association
More NFL Sites
NFL Youth Tackle
USA Football
NFL International
NFL On Location
NFL Extra Points
NFL Football Operations
Pro Football Hall of Fame
NFL Ticket Exchange
NFL Shop
Licensing
2016 NFL Enterprises LLC. NFL and the NFL shield design are registered trademarks of the National Football League.The team names, logos and uniform designs are registered trademarks of the teams indicated. All other NFL-related trademarks are trademarks of the National Football League. NFL footage
NFL Productions LLC.
Bills
Dolphins
Patriots
Jets
Ravens
Bengals
Browns
Steelers
Texans
Colts
Jaguars
Titans
Broncos
Chiefs
Raiders
Chargers
Cowboys
Giants
Eagles
Redskins
Bears
Lions
Packers
Vikings
Falcons
Panthers
Saints
Buccaneers
Cardinals
Rams
49ers
Seahawks
2016 NFL Enterprises LLC. NFL and the NFL shield design are registered trademarks of the
National Football League.The team names, logos and uniform designs are registered trademarks of
the teams indicated. All other NFL-related trademarks are trademarks of the National Football
League. NFL	footage
NFL Productions LLC. PRIVACY POLICY | Terms & Conditions
NFL News
CONTENT
15