
Job Summary and Mission:This position contributes to Starbucks success by providing legendary customer service to all customers. This job creates the Starbucks Experience for our customers by providing customers with prompt service, quality beverages and products, and maintaining a clean and comfortable store environment. Models and acts in accordance with Starbucks guiding principles.Summary of Key ResponsibilitiesResponsibilities and essential job functions include but are not limited to the following:* Acts with integrity, honesty and knowledge that promote the culture, values and mission of Starbucks. * Maintains a calm demeanor during periods of high volume or unusual events to keep store operating to standard and to set a positive example for the shift team. * Anticipates customer and store needs by constantly evaluating environment and customers for cues. Communicates information to manager so that the team can respond as necessary to create the Third Place environment during each shift. * Assists with new partner training by positively reinforcing successful performance and giving respectful and encouraging coaching as needed. * Contributes to positive team environment by recognizing alarms or changes in partner morale and performance and communicating them to the store manager. * Delivers legendary customer service to all customers by acting with a customer comes first attitude and connecting with the customer. Discovers and responds to customer needs. * Follows Starbucks operational policies and procedures, including those for cash handling and safety and security, to ensure the safety of all partners during each shift. * Maintains a clean and organized workspace so that partners can locate resources and product as needed. * Provides quality beverages, whole bean, and food products consistently for all customers by adhering to all recipe and presentation standards. Follows health, safety and sanitation guidelines for all products. * Recognizes and reinforces individual and team accomplishments by using existing organizational methods. * Maintains regular and punctual attendanceSummary of Experience * No previous experience required Basic Qualifications* Maintain regular and consistent attendance and punctuality, with or without reasonable accommodation * Available to work flexible hours that may include early mornings, evenings, weekends, nights and/or holidays * Meet store operating policies and standards, including providing quality beverages and food products, cash handling and store safety and security, with or without reasonable accommodation * Engage with and understand our customers, including discovering and responding to customer needs through clear and pleasant communication * Comply with a dress code that prohibits displaying tattoos, piercings in excess of two per ear, and unnatural hair colors, such as blue or pink * Prepare food and beverages to standard recipes or customized for customers, including recipe changes such as temperature, quantity of ingredients or substituted ingredients * Available to perform many different tasks within the store during each shiftRequired Knowledge, Skills and Abilities* Ability to learn quickly * Ability to understand and carry out oral and written instructions and request clarification when needed * Strong interpersonal skills * Ability to work as part of a team * Ability to build relationshipsStarbucks Corporation will consider qualified applicants with criminal histories in a manner consistent with all federal, state, and local ordinances.

