Skip to content
News Home
About
Advertising
Events
A Sustainable Future for Heathrow
Heathrow: Thrive or Die?
Opportunity Hayes
Place West London
lookwest interactive map
Newsletter
Place West London
New South Kilburn park to open
London First wants more overseas promotion
Friends Garden opens
Posted on 29th April 2016 by lookwestlondon
Aviva Investors Friends Garden, situated on Belmont Road, Uxbridge is now open to the public, following the completion of the recent re-landscaping of thetown centre public space.
Boris Johnson MP and year 4 pupils from Hermitage Primary school in Belmont Road, opened the garden by planting Lavender, Rosemary and Helichrysum along the borders of the newly landscaped garden.
landscape architect of Friends Garden, John Haxworth of Barton Willmore.
Aviva Investors gained permission from Hillingdon Council to re-landscape the garden last year. It is located beside Belmont, Aviva Investors 125,000 sq ft, grade A, 30 million town centre redevelopment office scheme which is scheduled for completion in December 2016.
Boris Johnson, MP for Uxbridge and South Ruislip, said I know the garden will prove to be a fantastic addition to Uxbridge, and a welcome spot for local residents to spend time in contemplation and relaxation.
Julian Cobourne of Aviva Investors said, The re-development of the Belmont office scheme, beside Friends Garden, gave us the opportunity to re-landscape the space and give it a new lease of life.
Barton Wilmore oversaw the landscape design of the space.
Photo credit Matt Writtle. copyright Matt Writtle 2016.
This entry was posted in Hillingdon. Bookmark the permalink.
New South Kilburn park to open
London First wants more overseas promotion
Search for:
LookWest News
Curve paused
Investing in connected places
Wandsworth Design Awards announced
Premier Inn for Fulham
Countryside Hounslow consultation
London First wants more overseas promotion
Friends Garden opens
New South Kilburn park to open
Passengers continue to grow at Heathrow
Brent approves investment strategy
Borough by Borough
Barnet
Brent
Ealing
General
Hammersmith and Fulham
Harrow
Heathrow
Hillingdon
Hounslow
Park Royal
Slough
Wandsworth
Place West London Sponsors
Proudly powered by WordPress.
This site uses cookies More infoNo problem