
Turkey Stocks Slide Most in 3 Months Amid Rising Political Risks.

Turkish stocks dropped for a third day and bonds declined with the lira as signs of increasing political turmoil damped investor appetite for the countrys assets.The Borsa Istanbul 100 Index slid 2.1 percent after a parliamentary committeeagreed late on Monday to remove the legal immunity of lawmakers accused of supporting the separatist Kurdish PKK,designated a terrorist group by Turkey, the U.S. and European Union. Yields on 10-year bonds climbed to a two-week high on Tuesday.The action in parliament comes after the ruling AK Party board stripped Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu of his powers to appoint leaders to the partys local organizations on Friday, reducing his authority and empowering loyalists of President Recip Tayyip Erdogan. Goldman Sachs Group Inc. said the decision was one of the clearest signs yet of tensions between Davutoglu and Erdogan, who wants an executive presidency.
The politics in Turkey is becoming an increasing concern to investors, said William Jackson, a London-based analyst at Capital Economics Ltd. The growing authoritarian streak in the AK party is worrying. These scuffles in parliament could have affected investor sentiment. It highlights the risks.
The 10-yield climbed 11 basis points to 9.36 percent at 2:17 p.m. in Istanbul and the lira slid 0.6 percent to 2.8221 versus the dollar. The Istanbul 100 index fell the most since Feb. 8 on a closing basis, extending its three-day decline to 4 percent.Turkey joined a retreat in emerging markets that sent a global equity gauge down the most in a month on Tuesday amid evidence of lackluster economic growth worldwide cut demand for riskier investments. Investors also shrugged off data showing Turkish inflation slowed in April to the lowest level in three years.There is negative sentiment in global financial markets today, Jackson said. Turkey is more dependent on foreign capital than most emerging markets so it is very sensitive to changes in global risk appetite.
Turkish stocks have rallied 15 percent this year as the Federal Reserve has become more cautious about tightening U.S. monetary policy, boosting appetite for emerging-market assets. Overseas investors poured $4 billion into Turkish stocks and bonds this year through April 22, the biggest inflow for the period since 2013.Looking forward, most of the positive news in Turkey is already priced in, Erkin Isik, a strategist at Turk Ekonomi Bankasi AS, said by e-mail. Inflation decline on basis effect and food prices are most likely over, positioning is not light anymore and political tension is more likely to increase. Before it's here, it's on the Bloomberg Terminal.

