site
Archive
eEdition
|
subscribe now
|
newsletter
|
sign in
classifieds
jobs
cars
homes
FEATURED
NEWS NOW
Name released in Sylvan Beach drowning
...
Police blotters -- Monday, May 2, 2016
...
COLUMN: Trip to D.C. with WWII veterans humbles young O-D reporter
...
Name released in Sylvan Beach drowning
...
Police blotters -- Monday, May 2, 2016
...
COLUMN: Trip to D.C. with WWII veterans humbles young O-D reporter
...
Name released in Sylvan Beach drowning
Divers recovered a body from the Erie Canal near the Route 13 bridge in Sylvan Beach on Monday night close to three hours after a young man jumped in to retrieve his tackle box, officials said.
Comment
By
Amy Neff Roth
Posted May. 3, 2016 at 12:01 am
Updated May 3, 2016 at 8:03 AM
Divers recovered a body from the Erie Canal near the Route 13 bridge in Sylvan Beach on Monday night close to three hours after a young man jumped in to retrieve his tackle box, officials said.The missing man was identified as Aaron Teater, 23, of Verona. Teater was fishing with relatives late Monday afternoon when his tackle box fell into the canal near the bridge and Crazy Clam restaurant on Canal St. and he jumped in after it, Johnson said.He was able to lift his tackle box out of the water, but couldnt pull himself up the concrete wall that lines the canal, Johnson said.Teaters relatives were unable to hoist him
whom Johnson described as large
from the water, and they called for help around 4:48 p.m., he said.There are no ladders in the area. The water is about 15 or 16 feet deep, Johnson said.
Divers from the Sylvan Beach Fire Department began the search soon after the man disappeared and were relieved by divers from the state police, the North Bay Fire Department and the Cleveland Fire Department, Johnson said.Because the water was so cold, divers tired quickly and had to work in shifts with each diver staying in the water no more than 10 minutes, Johnson said.Soon after Teater disappeared, passing drivers stopped, jumped into the water and tried to find him, Johnson said.A state police helicopter and several boats participated in the search.A diver found the body close to three hours after the man disappeared. It took five or six divers to pull his body from the water, Johnson said.Other agencies responding to the scene included the Durhamville, Vienna and Canastota fire departments, the Oneida County Sheriffs office and Vineall Ambulance from Oneida. The McConnellsville and Wampsville fire departments were placed on standby.Follow @OD_Roth on Twitter or call her at 792-5166.
Terms of Service
uticaod.com
Utica Directory
Featured Businesses
Loading...
Business Name
addressLocation, ST | website.com
Find Utica Attractions
Bars
Restaurants
Beauty Salons
Entertainment
Doctors
Medical Specialists
Contractors
Education
Lawn Services
Lawyers
Shopping
Travel
Tanning
Used Cars
Wedding Services
Add your business here +
Events Calendar
Connect with Uticaod
Facebook
Twitter
RSS
Back to top
Site Services
Contact Us
Subscriber Services
Classifieds
Submit Announcements & News
Market Place
Classifieds
Real Estate
Your Community News
Blotters
Herkimer County
Oneida-Verona
New Hartford
Rome
Utica
Oneida Indian Nation
Whitestown
Blogs - Living - Sports
Sports: Anne Delaney
Sports: John Pitarresi
Sports: Ron Moshier
Boilermaker
College
Pro Sports from AP
Propel Marketing
More Content Now
Find&Save
Mobile Site
Stay Informed
Email newsletter
Sign Up Today
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
Copyright 2006-2016 Gatehouse Media, LLC Some rights reservedPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service|Gatehouse Media Publications
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted. Uticaod | 221 Oriskany Plaza, Utica, NY 13501