Search
HomeNews
Inside News
Racist Facebook k-word rant causes outcry
A Cape Town man is facing an investigation after he went on a racist rant over Sports Minister Fikile Mbalula's decision to ban four sporting bodies from hosting international sporting events.
Mokopane taxi victims were Wits students
Petrol up, diesel down from Wednesday
Top SA News
Cogta refutes EFF's IEC claim
Schools, post office torched in Vuwani
SACP clarifies Cronin's Zuma comments
Krejcir back in court
Racist Facebook k-word rant causes outcry
Phiyega inquiry to commence
Mokopane taxi victims were Wits students
Top World News
Trump eyes knockout blow against Cruz
Villagers mistake sex toy for angel
Maduro quit calls escalate
Sinn Fein leader sorry for racial slur
IS beheads four young 'spies' in Syria
Trump hits out at Clinton and Cruz
10 Indonesian hostages freed in Philippines
Business
Inside Business
6 Ps of a successful retirement plan
How do you make sure that youve saved enough to enter your retirement years feeling confident and secure? Sanlam's Carl Roothman gives some advice...
Petrol price to increase
Protecting your rights as a tenant
Get Business Insurance
Top SA Business News
RMB enters property market
Starbucks to invest R130m in SA expansion
6 Ps of a successful retirement plan
Petrol price to increase
Rand hits five-month high after JZ ruling
Protecting your rights as a tenant
Shoppers queue for Mall of Africa opening
Top World Business News
Fresh strikes in France over labour bill
BoJ surprises as it holds off stimulus
Deutsche Bank warns of tough year ahead
Top Personal Finance News
6 Ps of a successful retirement plan
Tips to help you stay covered
Make retirement savings child's play
Sport
Inside Sport
Leicester fans euphoric after title win
Ecstatic fans rushed into the streets of Leicester on Monday as the outsiders won the Premier League in a triumph seen as the most astonishing in the history of English football.
Hazard gives Leicester historic title
Lions sweating over Jantjies injury
Top Rugby HeadlinesGroom leaving Stormers for Saints
Sharks face Lambie poser
Lions sweating over Jantjies injury
Top Cricket HeadlinesCook finds form ahead of SL series
India to resume West Indies ties
Steyn signs for CPL side
Top Football HeadlinesBayern vow to attack Atletico defence
Bale seeks to seal Real resurgence
Leicester fans euphoric after title win
Other SportsFederer withdraws from Madrid tourney
Shin breaks through for first win
Vegas, Stuard share lead
Motoring
Inside Motoring
Latest News
New Models
Road Tests
Features
Formula 1
Sign up for our Motoring Newsletter!
Save on car Insurance
Facelifted Amarok to get more gruntVolkswagen's Amarok bakkie will receive a new powerplant to go along with its facelift for 2017, the automaker revealed.
The world's top carmaker is...
Volvo to test self-driving car in London
Mitsubishi cheating since 1991
Entertain
Inside Entertain
Celeb News
Movies
Music
Get More
Sign up for our Entertain newsletter!
'Space Jam 2' a go, LeBron James to starA sequel to 'Space Jam' is finally happening, and Basketball player LeBron James is going to star in the movie.
'Big Bang Theory' star happy with new man
Blac Chyna robbed, $200k looted
'Spotlight' journo slams Trump's abuse
Lifestyle
Inside Lifestyle
Food
Love & Sex
Wellness & Psychology
His Life
Her Life
Fashion & Beauty
Parenting
Get Life Insurance
A minute of exercise boosts healthA minute of high intensity exercise has the same health benefits as longer-intensity workouts, a study found.
Nurofen unable to target specific area
Skin cells used to create human sperm
EU food watchdog to reassess bisphenol A
Cooltech
Inside Cooltech
News
Gadgets
Games
Features
Apps of the Week
Viral Videos
Sign up for our Cooltech Newsletter!
Smart Home has security flawsWhile a Smart Home is one of the features of the future we're looking forward to, right now they may not be all that safe...
Internet Explorer has been dethroned
Whatsapp blocked in Brazil
Tablet sales tanking
Travel
Inside Travel
Travel News
Flights
Explore SA
Beyond SA
Accommodation
Competitions
Departure Lounge
Child seen urinating on plane floorA woman shocked passengers on board a flight in China when she helped her granddaughter urinate on the floor of the plane.
The most & least 'touristy' countries
SA Express suspension lifted
World in need of airline controllers
DatingWinTools
Get more
Weather
Newsletters
Lotto
RSS Feeds
Fax2Email
Save on your insurance!Are you covered? Compare quotes for car, life and business insurance right now!
Going somewhere? Search and book the cheapest flights right now
Need a place to stay? Find and book your accommodation online today
What's in the stars for you today? Get your daily horoscope here
Jobs
Facebook
Twitter
iafrica.com Only the good stuff
Indicators$ R14.43
R21.15
R16.72Oil $45.48
Gold $1 294.44
Get Insurance Quotes
Are you covered? Compare quotes for car, life and business insurance right now!
JZ charges automatically reinstated - DAArticle By: Staff ReporterTue, 03 May 2016 1:24 PM Share
Your Email
President Jacob Zuma. Credit: AFPThe 783 corruption charges against President Jacob Zuma have been automatically reinstated, the Democratic Alliance said.In a statement on Tuesday, the DA said that after seeking legal advice following the North Gauteng High Court's ruling the the National Prosecuting Authority's decision to drop the charges against Zuma in 2009 was irrational, it beleives that the charges against him are automatically reinstated.The DA said that there was legal precedent and that it should apply to the so-called spay tapes saga as well."This legal precedent was established most recently in the Mdluli matter when the dropping of those charges was determined to be without legal basis and therefore set aside as irrational. This should apply in this matter too," the DA said in a statement.The party then called on National Director of Public Prosecutions (NDPP), Adv Shaun Abrahams, to proceed with the case against President Zuma."This is a golden opportunity for Adv Abrahams to show his independence and proceed with this prosecution as planned, and give Jacob Zuma a court date."The DA has always maintained that the President may not be guilty but that he have his day in court as is consistent with the Rule of Law and due process. The President himself has stated on numerous occasions that he wants his day in court."In the absence of any legitimate factual or legal reasons, the DA is led to believe that these charges were dropped for political purposes: a political solution needed to be found to drop charges against a person who was about to become President, and the Spy Tapes provided the convenient excuse that has now been set aside," the DA said.
Related ArticlesOpposition want Zuma's charges reinstatedSACP clarifies Cronin's Zuma commentsSpy tapes ruling a judicial review - ANCSpy Tapes: DA urges Zuma not to appealZuma should face charges - courtRead MoreSPY TAPES JACOB ZUMA DEMOCRATIC ALLIANCE
Comments Please NoteBy commenting on this article, you are agreeing to the Terms and Conditions of the iafrica.com comments system.
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
blog comments powered by Disqus
In Focus Today
News
Business
Sport
JZ charges automatically reinstated - DA
The 783 corruption charges against President Jacob Zuma have been automatically reinstated, the Democratic Alliance said.
Read more
6 Ps of a successful retirement plan
How do you make sure that youve saved enough to enter your retirement years feeling confident and secure? Sanlam's Carl Roothman gives some advice...
Read more
Leicester fans euphoric after title win
Ecstatic fans rushed into the streets of Leicester on Monday as the outsiders won the Premier League in a triumph seen as the most astonishing in the...
Read more
Sponsored Links
Wine Of The WeekWork Money SmarterSave on insurance
DatingWomenMenSearchFind love now. Join for free!
iafrica on Facebook
Subscribe to our Newsletters
Your Daily News
Get daily local and international News, Sport
and Business highlights to your inbox.
The Tech Set
Tech savvy geeks and normal peeps chomp at the bits (pun intended) for their weekly fix!
The Spotlight
All the hottest Entertainment News from around the globe in your inbox every week.
The Good Life
Get your weekly Lifestyle highlights sent straight to your inbox.
Go Full Throttle!
Rev those engines and subscribe to the Full Throttle weekly motoring newsletter.
Travel Bug!
All the latest Travel News in your inbox every week.
Yes
No
Do you wish to receive promotions from our partners?
Home
Contact
Feedback
Advertising
Services
About us
Newsletters
Mobi site
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
DMMA
ADTECH
Copyright 2002-2016 iafrica.com, a division of Primedia Online.