Skip to content
News Home
About
Advertising
Events
A Sustainable Future for Heathrow
Heathrow: Thrive or Die?
Opportunity Hayes
Place West London
lookwest interactive map
Newsletter
Place West London
Friends Garden opens
Countryside Hounslow consultation
London First wants more overseas promotion
Posted on 29th April 2016 by lookwestlondon
London First has called for more promotion abroad of London as a business and tourism destination, particuarly in China, urging the Mayor to ditch City Halls vanity posters on the Tube and increase expenditure onoverseas work.
London is failing to attract Chinese business and tourism because the Greater London Authority is not promoting the city properly abroad, a new report from London First has said.
The report identifies that London is less well placed that its rivals, such as Paris and Berlin. As a result, Chinese people rate both Paris and New York as more important than London when asked to comment on their perception of international cities.
Part of the reason could be air links. London offers fewer direct air routes to Chinese cities than competitor cities (excluding Hong Kong). The UK offers direct flights to only four Chinese cities (Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Chengdu), while Frankfurt serves six destinations and Paris Charles de Gaulle seven. This shortfall is linked to the capacity crunch over which the UK Government is currently dithering.
Paris is estimated to receive up to 50% more Chinese tourists than London, boosted by its membership of the Schengen single visa arrangements through which 26 European countries collectively issue 1.4m visitor visas in China p.a. as opposed to the 390,000 UK visas issued there.
The UK accounted for less than 1% of the total Chinese outbound tourism market in 2013. This is in part because the most popular destinations are short haul Asian countries. But, say London First, even when only what Visit Britain defines as Londonscompetitor set are taken in to account Western economies of a similar distance from China and with a broadly comparable visitor offer
Britain still only ranks tenth in terms of market share.
London First says the Capital needs to be promoting itself not just with Chinas four first-tier cities (Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen) because there are more than 50 second-tier cities in China with a per capita GDP over $10,000.
The report places the blame at the low level of expenditure on promoting London abroad. It says that Londons modest promotional budget, of 19m a year, is dwarfed by city states such as Singapore (budget: 201m) and Hong Kong (budget: 253m) and behind European competitors such as Paris (34m) and Berlin (22m). When city populations are taken into account, London spends less than a quarter as much per head as Berlin.
London First believe the capitals promotional authority, London & Partners, would benefit from a ring-fenced strategic fund to scale up Londons promotion in the markets of the future.
The report suggests a number of ways of raising the money, including sellingTransport for Londons poster sites rather than using them forvanity posters promoting the Mayor, City Hall or Transport for London.
Jo Valentine, Chief Executive of London First, said:We cant rely just on attracting traditional markets such as American tourists, welcome as they are. We also need to build our brand in the emerging economies too. Paris is just doing a much better job of attracting the Chinese
and every year we fail to market ourselves, we fall further behind.
There are excessive numbers of vanity posters on the Tube promoting the Mayor and City Hall. If we sold all or most of these poster sites, wed have more money to promote London abroad.
With a new Mayor due in City Hall in less than one month, London First will be looking to them to take bold steps to invest in Londons international promotion.
This entry was posted in General. Bookmark the permalink.
Friends Garden opens
Countryside Hounslow consultation
Search for:
LookWest News
Curve paused
Investing in connected places
Wandsworth Design Awards announced
Premier Inn for Fulham
Countryside Hounslow consultation
London First wants more overseas promotion
Friends Garden opens
New South Kilburn park to open
Passengers continue to grow at Heathrow
Brent approves investment strategy
Borough by Borough
Barnet
Brent
Ealing
General
Hammersmith and Fulham
Harrow
Heathrow
Hillingdon
Hounslow
Park Royal
Slough
Wandsworth
Place West London Sponsors
Proudly powered by WordPress.
This site uses cookies More infoNo problem