Skip to content
News Home
About
Advertising
Events
A Sustainable Future for Heathrow
Heathrow: Thrive or Die?
Opportunity Hayes
Place West London
lookwest interactive map
Newsletter
Place West London
Brent approves investment strategy
New South Kilburn park to open
Passengers continue to grow at Heathrow
Posted on 27th April 2016 by lookwestlondon
Heathrow passenger traffic was up again for the first three months of 2016.
16.8 million passengers using Heathrow in first three months, up 2.6% on the same period in 2015. This helped a strong financial performance with revenue up 3.2% to 642 million and EBITDA up 7.3% to 367 million reflecting lower costs and better value.
Meanwhile, independent analysis showed that a number of routes from Heathrow, Britains biggest port, are already full for freight, prompting more calls for the Government to resolve the aviation capacity crunch.
John Holland-Kaye, Chief Executive Officer of Heathrow, said:Its been a fantastic start to 2016 and Heathrow is performing strongly on all fronts. Our colleagues are delivering excellent value for our passengers
better service at a lower cost.
At a time of uncertainty about Britains place in the world, families and businesses are counting on the Prime Minister to secure Britains long term future. An expanded Heathrow will be an economic powerhouse, a global symbol of a confident, outward looking Britain. Lets make it happen.
This entry was posted in Heathrow. Bookmark the permalink.
Brent approves investment strategy
New South Kilburn park to open
Search for:
LookWest News
Curve paused
Investing in connected places
Wandsworth Design Awards announced
Premier Inn for Fulham
Countryside Hounslow consultation
London First wants more overseas promotion
Friends Garden opens
New South Kilburn park to open
Passengers continue to grow at Heathrow
Brent approves investment strategy
Borough by Borough
Barnet
Brent
Ealing
General
Hammersmith and Fulham
Harrow
Heathrow
Hillingdon
Hounslow
Park Royal
Slough
Wandsworth
Place West London Sponsors
Proudly powered by WordPress.
This site uses cookies More infoNo problem