Subscribe
Sign In
Register
Home
Subscribe
Advertise with Us
Careers with Us
Contact News-Times
Newsletters
Digital edition
Terms of Use
Archives
FAQ
New Milford to pay new contractor $3M to clean up Century Brass
Newtown boys hold off New Fairfield to win lacrosse battle
Brookfield boys lacrosse avenges loss to Bunnell, wins third
State Police urge motorcycle safety
News
Local
Police Reports
Regional
National
World
Politics
Opinion
Science and Technology
Were you SEEN?
Sing much? You could win Hall & Oates tickets for local June 16
Longtime Danbury resident, civil rights leader to grace new $5
First responders descend on New Milford for search and rescue
Region 12 towns worry about state help for Agriscience project
Sports
Baseball
Football
Basketball
Hockey
Other
High School
UConn
College
High School Football
Danbury boys and girls track teams sweep OGrady Relays
HIGH SCHOOL ROUNDUP: Hatters rally past Wilton in baseball win
Green Wave bats stay hot in baseball win over Kolbe Cathedral
HIGH SCHOOL ROUNDUP: Bethel girls edge Immaculate in lacrosse
Business
Top Workplaces
Markets
Real Estate
Danbury, New Milford law firms merge
Danbury developer, philanthropist Ervie Bud Hawley
Primark to open Danbury location in June
Plans in place to improve downtown Ridgefield
Entertainment
Movies
Music
Arts
Television
Comics
Horoscope
Games
Lottery
100 years of King Features Syndicate
Broadway legend Betty Buckley brings cabaret to Ridgefield
Comic Greg Fitzsimmons at Mohegan Sun
Stamford-born, Rowayton-raised actor Treat Williams at Avon with
Living
Health
Home and Garden
Family
Religion
Travel
Food
Weddings
Engagements
2016 Connecticut Governors Tourism Award Winners Announced
Engagement: Berardi-Pessolano
Engagement: Vandergrift-Kaminsky
Engagement: Rizzo-Kaptein
Obituaries
Blogs
Classifieds
Jobs
Homes
Rentals
Cars
Find & Save
MenuSections
http://www.newstimes.com/news/article/The-Latest-DNC-chair-Clinton-coal-comments-out-7389785.php
The Latest: DNC chair: Clinton coal comments out of care
Updated 8:31am, Tuesday, May 3, 2016
Photo: Michael Conroy, AP
Image 1of/5
CaptionClose
Image 1 of 5
Republican presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, waves with his wife Heidi and daughters, Caroline, right, and Catherine, during a rally at the Indiana State Fairgrounds in Indianapolis, Monday, May 2, 2016. less
Republican presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, waves with his wife Heidi and daughters, Caroline, right, and Catherine, during a rally at the Indiana State Fairgrounds in Indianapolis, Monday, May 2, ... more
Photo: Michael Conroy, AP
Image 2 of 5
Republican vice presidential candidate Carly Fiorina speaks at a rally for presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas at the Indiana State Fairground in Indianapolis, Monday, May 2, 2016.
Republican vice presidential candidate Carly Fiorina speaks at a rally for presidential candidate Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas at the Indiana State Fairground in Indianapolis, Monday, May 2, 2016.
Photo: Michael Conroy, AP
Image 3 of 5
Democratic presidential hopeful Bernie Sanders speaks to members of the media before the start of a rally at the Old National Events Plaza during a rally in Evansville, Ind., Monday, May 2, 2016.
Indiana holds its primary Tuesday.
(Jason Clark/Evansville Courier & Press via AP) MANDATORY CREDIT less
Democratic presidential hopeful Bernie Sanders speaks to members of the media before the start of a rally at the Old National Events Plaza during a rally in Evansville, Ind., Monday, May 2, 2016.
Indiana holds ... more
Photo: Jason Clark, AP
Image 4 of 5
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks during a campaign stop Monday, May 2, 2016, in South Bend, Ind.
Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump speaks during a campaign stop Monday, May 2, 2016, in South Bend, Ind.
Photo: Charles Rex Arbogast, AP
Image 5 of 5
Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton speaks at Williamson Health and Wellness Center in Williamson, W.Va., Monday, May 2, 2016.
Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton speaks at Williamson Health and Wellness Center in Williamson, W.Va., Monday, May 2, 2016.
Photo: Paul Sancya, AP
The Latest: DNC chair: Clinton coal comments out of care
1/5
Back to Gallery
WASHINGTON (AP)
The Latest on campaign 2016 as voters in Indiana head to the polls for the state primary (all times Eastern):7:45 a.m.Hillary Clinton's supporters say she may have offended voters in politically important coal country with what she acknowledge was a misstatement
but at least she's willing to acknowledge her own mistakes. Donald Trump, they say, "never apologizes for anything."
Clinton has spent recent days West Virginia and Kentucky being heckled and explaining that she had made a "misstatement" in March when she said in an interview on CNN that she would "put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business." She was responding to a question about how her policies would benefit poor white people in Southern states. She said Monday that "whether people vote for me or not, whether they yell at me or not, it's not going to affect what I will do to help."Democratic National Chairwoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz told CNN Tuesday that Clinton didn't change the substance of her plans for poor people in the region, adding that "when you say something that comes out in a hurtful way" it helps to let them know you still care about them.Democratic strategist Brad Woodhouse added on the same network that the episode showed that Clinton is "someone who's willing to admit a misstatement." He said Trump, on the other hand, "is someone who never apologizes for anything."___3:30 a.m.Republican Ted Cruz faces a high-stakes test for his slumping presidential campaign in Tuesday's Indiana primary, one of the last opportunities for the Texas senator to halt Donald Trump's stunning march toward the GOP nomination.Cruz has spent the past week camped out in Indiana, securing the support of the state's governor and announcing retired technology executive Carly Fiorina as his running mate.Yet his aides were pessimistic heading into Tuesday's voting and were prepared for Cruz to fall short, though the senator vowed to stay in the race, regardless of the results.While Trump cannot clinch the nomination with a big win in Indiana, his path would get easier and he would have more room for error in the campaign's final contests.
Most Popular
1
Cops: Motorcyclist clocked at 133 mph
2
Sports Authority liquidation extends to Norwalk
3
Woman shares prison letter she says is from former Subway...
4
Historic landmark to become antique shop in New Milford
5
Overturned car closes road in Danbury
6
Lawsuit: Starbucks overfills cold drinks with ice
7
Tesla, facing failure, raises the ante
View Comments
2016 Hearst Communications, Inc.
Logo
Return to Top
About
Careers
Advertising
Terms & Conditions
About Our Ads
Ad Choices
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights
Contact
Contact Us
FAQ
Today's eEdition
Feedback
Submissions
Connect
Newsletter Sign-Up
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Hearst Newspapers
Copyright
Hearst Media Services Connecticut, LLC