Submit :
News												Photos						Just						In						Debate						Topic						Latest						NewsArticlesLocal						NewsBlog						Posts						PicturesReviewsRecipes
New to merinews?
WORLD
INDIA
SPORTS
BUSINESS
TECHNOLOGY
ENTERTAINMENT
LIFESTYLE
REVIEWS
INTERVIEWS					 LOCAL
Sign In | Register
Sign Out
Merinews Picks
Illinois' Rockford City Council to open with Hindu prayer for the first time in 164 years
Rockford City Council (Illinois, USA) will have its reportedly first historic Hindu opening prayer on May 16, containing verses..
Correspondent
more...
Defend and encourage press..
White House Correspondents'.. Hindu prisoners in England &.. Illinois' Rockford City Council..
Debate 							Paris attacks will have a major fallback on Syrian refugees seeking asylum in Europe
Agree :
100.0								%
Disagree :
0.0								%
More Categories
Business Politics Others
Merinews Picks
Fresh revelations in AgustaWestland case: Is the game over for Congress?
Congress perhaps thought that by aggression and blackmailing in Rajya Sabha it could create problems for BJP-led NDA government. It..
Biranchi Narayan Acharya
more...
Book released - 'Capital.. J&K Shri Ram Sena organises.. Fresh revelations in.. Sri Sri Ravi Shankarji, Malala..
Debate 							"Bharat Mata Ki Jai" slogan not related to any religion
Agree :
62.5								%
Disagree :
37.5								%
More Categories
Society and Culture Politics Business NRI Local News
Merinews Picks
Vivo IPL 2016 match prediction: Ferozshah Kotla heats up for Delhi Daredevils V/s Kolkata Knight Riders encounter
In match number 26 of the Vivo IPL 2016, home team Delhi Daredevils meet Gautam Gambhir-led Kolkata Knight Riders at the Ferozshah..
Ikshit
more...
Vivo IPL 2016 match preview:.. Royal Challengers Bangalore and.. Vivo IPL 2016: Rising Pune.. Preview: Clash between Gujarat..
Debate 							IPL should be given a break!
Agree :
37.5								%
Disagree :
62.5								%
More Categories
Cricket Football Tennis Racing Other Sports Hockey Kabaddi
Merinews Picks
Making women work
It is usually the case that whenever there is increased economic activity in a country, a larger number of women enter the work..
Shantanu Dutta
more...
UDAY scheme to effect state.. Corporate strategy behind NRI.. There's need to fix limit on.. Making women work
Debate 							Reliance taking control over the Network18 group is not a good news for news industry
Agree :
80.0								%
Disagree :
20.0								%
More Categories
SME Corporate Economy Mutual Funds Global Markets Personal Finance Others Start Ups
Merinews Picks
Google marks mathematician Claude Shannon's 100th birthday with a lively interactive Doodle
Internet's search engine giant Google celebrates the 100th birthday of Claude Shannon, an American mathematician known as the..
Dr. Lalit Kishore
more...
Google honours iconic Indian.. Facebook greets people on Labour.. Google marks mathematician.. India gets its own navigation..
Debate 							iPhone's positioning of cheaper version(5c) will dilute the brand image of Apple
Agree :
46.67								%
Disagree :
53.33								%
More Categories
Gadget Reviews Technology News
Merinews Picks
Amazing Hollywood movie sets you never knew were miniature sized until now!
Ever thought how famous Hollywood movie directors bring different worlds to life? It takes a lot of sweat, money and hard work from..
Ikshit
more...
Anushka Sharma on the cover of.. Auditions begin for BIG Memsaab.. Amazing Hollywood movie sets you.. In pics: Gorgeous Bipasha Basu's..
Debate 							Protests against Aamir Khan's PK are unjustified
Agree :
44.44								%
Disagree :
55.56								%
More Categories
Video Games Television Movies Music
Merinews Picks
Should new education policy of India be guided by SDGs agenda agreed by world community?
The UN's Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to be achieved in the period 1915 - 1930 have been agreed upon by most countries..
Dr. Lalit Kishore
more...
World Asthma Day: Need to bust.. Necessary preventive steps one.. Should new education policy of.. Precautions you must take..
Debate 							No harm if students listen to PM Narendra Modi's Teacher's Day speech
Agree :
54.84								%
Disagree :
45.16								%
More Categories
Travel Astrology Food Spirituality and Wellness Relationships Fashion and Beauty Career and Worklife Humour Personal Space Women Education Men
Merinews Picks
Movie review: Jai Gangaajal
Jai Gangajal is sequel of 2003 Hindi film Gangaajal directed by Prakash Jha. The film Gangaajal mentioned about the barbaric..
Tumpa Mukherjee
more...
Kavyamay Vyakaran: Review of the..
Chief Justice Thakur's speech.. Movie review: Jai Gangaajal Review: 'Laal Rang' talks about..
Debate 							Movie Reviews serve no purpose today as most of them are paid
Agree :
75.0								%
Disagree :
25.0								%
More Categories
Book Review Movie Preview Movie Review Music Review Tele Soaps Review Others
Merinews Picks
Watch video: The Bangalore techie who can turn discarded pen refills into beautiful iconic structures
We may ever think of making fantastic structures out of discarded pen refills, but here a software professional made us surprised..
Santosh Kashyap
more...
An interview with Femina Miss.. Author of the book `Building.. Cherished dream of a young.. Watch video: The Bangalore..
Debate 							Should an ally blackmail the Coalition on the eve of..
Agree :
0.0								%
Disagree :
0.0								%
More Categories
Business Entertainment Sports Technology Politics Society International Personality Lifestyle
Gurgaon Bangalore Chennai Delhi Kolkata Mumbai Noida
Submit News
Events
Jobs
Columnists
Just In
Videos
Classifieds
Discount Coupons
Fresh revelations in AgustaWestland case: Is the game over for Congress?
Biranchi Narayan Acharya
03 May, 2016
0.0/5
1
2
3
4
5
Congress perhaps thought that by aggression and blackmailing in Rajya Sabha it could create problems for BJP-led NDA government. It all started with Lalitgate when the Congress used its majority in Rajya Sabha to put pressure on BJP's smooth journey on the path of reforms.
First the Monsoon session in 2015 got washed away. Then during the
winter session BJP became very defensive. Prime Minister Narendra
Modi invited the Congress chief, Sonia Gandhi and former Prime
Minister Manmohan Singh for a cup of tea expecting their cooperation
in Rajya Sabha especially for passing of some key bills including
GST. But the Congress viewed it as weakness of BJP and stalled Rajya
Sabha again on Arunachal issue.
During that period they lost their appeal in High Court to cancel
summons issued against Gandhis by a lower court in National Herald
case. The Congress became reactive although other opposition parties
didn't support them. Still they managed to disrupt the Rajya Sabha.
In
Focus
What the Congress forgot is, "you can't succeed in your single
point agenda of derailing NDA's reform process". BJP this time
has formed the government with a strong majority in Lok Sabha. They
realized that the Congress is trying to blackmail them due to their
strength in Rajya Sabha. They searched ways and means to counter
Congress's strategy. First thing BJP did is to stop being desperate
on GST. Then they made Subramanian Swami, a known Gandhi family
baiter, a nominated member in Rajya Sabha to embarrass the Congress.
Ishrat Jahan case came out in open because of some exposes by
ex-bureaucrats. Some facts that were revealed are so dangerous that
the Congress became defensive. The compromise on national security is
clearly evident as the terrorism angle was intentionally hidden
because of political interest. Then home minister P. Chidambaram's
role was also found suspicious in the case.
The Congress tried to push the fake encounter angle, but the point is,
if Ishrat was a terrorist then how the encounter could be fake?
People also started questioning how an encounter with a terrorist can
be fake. To make it genuine should some Police officer need to be
killed. Ex-forensic investigator along with many from IB including
ex-NSA revealed that encounter was genuine and carried out after
getting information that they were on a mission to kill then Gujarat
CM Narendra Modi.
Then surfaced AgustaWestland chopper scam. The Italian court
indicated that political power house including the Congress chief was
influenced through bribery for sealing the deal. The Congress
defended aggressively claiming that they blacklisted the company and
initiated CBI and ED inquiry. What NDA government did for last two
years? Sonia Gandhi said that she was not afraid of anybody rather
challenged the government to show any proof indicting her.
But when facts start revealing it revealed everything. It has now
proved (as per Times Now expose) that both CBI and ED colluded in
slowing down the investigations may be due to instructions from
people sitting at higher positions. Then CBI director Ranjit Sinha
had been pulled by the Supreme Court for his vulnerability to
political bosses in the coal scam case. The SC called CBI a caged
parrot.
P. Chidambaram was home minister that time and he is well known
for his interference. Thus no investigation in fact was carried out
during that time rather some cover ups were made.
Congress's claim of blacklisting the company fell flat because the
facts, which have revealed now shows that the file noting to initiate
blacklisting AWI was done on 12th May 2014, the last day
of voting in general elections. The exit polls clearly showed that
the Congress was losing. That perhaps made them panic.
By 13th May 2014, the file crossed four desks with
lightening speed. That perhaps convinced the Congress that AWI was
blacklisted by them although it was NDA government which blacklisted
the company in July 2014. The Congress now having no point alleged
that the government is selectively leaking documents to media even
before the formal debate on this issue.
I don't disagree with the fact that NDA may be selectively leaking
some documents including some file noting. When the Congress was
interested in debates. During the monsoon session despite the
government's agreement for the debate on the Congress notice, the
later continued to disrupt the house.
The problem for the Congress is now grave. The revelation that
some media channels/newspapers were also paid money to bury this scam
alerted all media people. The so called pro-Congress media too
started asking tough questions to the Congress perhaps in a bid to
prove that they were not in the list of those who were paid bribes.
My point is simple, had the Congress cooperated with the current
government in reforms as a constructive opposition, such things would
have been seen as political vendetta.
The proverb is apt, if your house is built of glass; don't throw
stones at other's. Will the Congress realise its big mistake now?
Is Congress's game over?
Editorial NOTE: This article is categorized under
Opinion Section. The views expressed in this article are solely
those of the author and do not necessarily represent the views of
merinews.com. In case you have a opposing view, please click
here to share the same in the comments section.
Photos
Comments
Previous Post
Sri Sri Ravi Shankarji, Malala Yousafzai is an international icon of resistance
Next Post
Rahul Gandhi aka Singham: Poster battle heats up in Uttar Pradesh ahead of Assembly elections
COMMENTS
(1)
Guest
To earn points for your comment sign
in now.
Name
Email Id
Verification Code
Email me on reply to my comment
Email me when other CJs comment on this article
}
Sign in to
set your preference
Rajesh
I find the tone and tenor of MSM changed in the last 3-4 days. Rajdeep Suardesai left twitter. Sagarika has not reacted that strongly. Saba Naqvi thinking of leaving
twitter. Even Sandipan Sharma has toned down. First post is little down.
Print media is also opening its eyes and appears to have start learning the ground realities.
Modi, BJP and govt should keep up the pressure.
0 Replies
Merinews Picks
Fresh revelations in AgustaWestland case: Is the game over for Congress?
Vijay Mallya resigns from Rajya Sabha, expresses disappointment over being labelled as defaulter
Anushka Sharma on the cover of Vogue India's May issue: Talks about her films and career
A library for the 'Caged Children'
Advertisement
Popular on merinews
The most popular citizen journalists' reports on merinews chosen automatically on the basis of views and comments
Day
| Week
| Month
1
Royal Challengers Bangalore and Kolkata Knight Riders to clash for the first time in Vivo IPL 2016
2
In pics: Gorgeous Bipasha Basu's wedding was nothing less than a fairy tale!
3
Prashant Kishor suggests making Rahul Gandhi CM candidate in UP polls, is it the Congress vice president's coming of age?
4
Parineeti Chopra talks about her transformation from fat to thin
1
Preview of match 23 in Vivo IPL 2016: Delhi Daredevils V/s Gujarat Lions
2
Vivo IPL 2016 match prediction: Ferozshah Kotla heats up for Delhi Daredevils V/s Kolkata Knight Riders encounter
3
Extreme sycophancy within the Congress over Ishrat Jahan issue
4
Laughter Day: Learn to do simple laughter yoga
1
As per a latest survey, PM Narendra Modi is most popular among the Indian middle class
2
How PM Modi manages to save time and money on his foreign trips?
3
Ishrat Jahan - A fidayeen or an innocent college girl?
4
Is Indian media inferior to Pakistani & international media?
India
Sri Sri Ravi Shankarji, Malala Yousafzai is an international icon of resistance
Rahul Gandhi aka Singham: Poster battle heats up in Uttar Pradesh ahead of Assembly elections
Power demand in Haryana escalates by 15 per cent
Vijay Mallya resigns from Rajya Sabha, expresses disappointment over being labelled as defaulter
New Delhi
Govt didn't give due recognition to Vaishya community: AIVF
Advertisement
Not finding what you are looking for? Search here.
Content |
CJ Name
|
Local Listings
|
Topic
|
Weather
Find
In
Six interesting things you must know..
Some awesome recipes for Navratri..
Seven heroes who gave up their lives..
Six reasons why you should say no to..
NEWS
JUST IN
OPINION
WEATHER
Potpourri
SPECIALS
CLOG
PHOTOS
About Us
Citizen Journalism
RTI Activists
Merinews Editorial
Support Us
Contact Us
Signup
Widget
RSS
Tags
Internship
FAQ
Sitemap
WE Program
Print Version
Mobile Version
Hindi
Terms of Use
Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Follow, subscribe, or add us to your browser search.
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Subscribe to RSS feeds
Add to browser Search
Archive :
Index by Date | Index by Topics | Index by Region