Tuesday
May
03
2016
5:09 am
Home
Local News
State/National/World
Sports
Opinion / Letters
Business
Arts / Entertainment
Lifestyle
Obituaries
Calendar
Submit Event
Comics / Games
Classifieds
DJ Designers
Archives
Advertise With Us
About Us
GET THE DAY'S
TOP HEADLINES
DELIVERED DAILY
TO YOUR INBOX
FOR FREE
Sign up here
Read the Print Edition Here:
Read Archive PDFs:
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
2016
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011
2010
2009
2008
2007
2006
2005
2004
2003
2002
2001
2000
City ups wage hike timeline: San Mateo moves to hit $15 an hour by 2018 above new state mandates
May 03, 2016, 05:00 AM By Samantha Weigel Daily Journal
After hearing varying views from local business owners and low-income workers, the San Mateo City Council opted to proceed with plans to increase the minimum wage in an attempt to address the areas high cost of living.
The council met Monday night to discuss the possibility of going beyond the states recently enacted plan to phase in increases until the minimum wage hits $15 an hour by 2022. The council unanimously directed staff to draft an ordinance that would more quickly phase in wage hikes by increasing local wages to $15 an hour by 2018.
It will also consider delaying the increase for small businesses and nonprofits, hosting regular economic studies on the impacts of the increase as well as methods for enforcing a new ordinance.
Officials have made looking at a citywide minimum wage increase a priority since last year and despite Gov. Jerry Brown preempting a local move by passing a new law last month, the council decided to go a step further.
Mayor Joe Goethals acknowledged the value of the citys small business community and sympathized they would take on the majority of the burden. But, he added its an important facet to assisting those who are struggling to afford the areas high cost of housing.
This is one piece of addressing housing affordability, Goethals said, according to a live video of the meeting. So I am very proud that the council is doing this.
This is an expression of our values and our appreciation of the dignity of work and that we reject poverty as a status quo.
The city must iron out the details and will return over the summer to vote before enacting any changes. One contended consideration is how small business are defined and whether to provide them, as well as nonprofits and home health care companies, with an additional year or two before phasing in the increase. Staff is expected to return after analyzing how many small businesses are in the city before the council makes a decision.
Officials considered a range of implementation such as whether to exempt youth employees, how to avoid consequences during a potential economic downturn, possibly tying future increases to the areas consumer price index and enforcement.
Advocates for assisting low-income workers as well as business owners who will undoubtedly be affected by mandates to increase payrolls spoke during the meeting.
Opposition centered around impacts to small and specialty business owners who feared they would be unduly burdened or unable to support their operations without raising costs to consumers.
Ann Fienman, executive director of the Downtown San Mateo Association, noted many business owners were fearful it could put them at a disadvantage as they compete with neighboring cities and many are also struggling to afford the areas high commercial rents.
The proposal of a local minimum wage is even perceived by some as an attack on small business, Fienman said. San Mateo is not only an expensive place to live, its an expensive place to do business.
Several restaurateurs expressed concerns about the ripple effect, noting increasing the minimum wage would result in hikes across the board for all employees.
Alicia Petrakis, owner of Three Restaurant in downtown, said she sympathizes with those struggling to afford the areas high cost of living, but questioned whether the increase would have the desired effect.
The increase to us is dramatic, Petrakis said. The thought of it going to $15 an hour in a year or two years as a Band-Aid to try and make San Mateo more affordable to live is not the answer.
But proponents argued going beyond statewide mandates was key to enabling workers to provide for their families.
Representatives with the Raise the Wage Coalition advocated for the city to raise local wages to $15 by 2018, noting it could have profound benefits to workers and their families.
Bradley Cleveland and Will White, representatives with the coalition, suggested the council conduct an annual report to gauge the effects of an increase and ensure its being enforced. White noted higher wages can assist families ability to afford safe housing, adequate nutrition and health care.
Not only is this going to help families make ends meet on a monthly basis, but it could potentially have a really profound effect on public health, White said.
Councilman Rick Bonilla agreed, adding it could reduce workers reliance on social services.
If we do this right, people will actually need fewer services and there might be less actual need for public subsidies like food stamps, Section 8, because people will be able to come closer to making somewhat of what it costs to live here, Bonilla said. Thats the difference, people can live with dignity.
The council agreed the regions high cost of living and the fact that nearly 47,000 employees in the city could benefit from the increase made raising the wage a step in the right direction. But, they acknowledged, it was only a step to addressing those who were struggling to afford high rents.
After the council failed to achieve consensus on controversial tenant protections such as rent control and just cause for eviction ordinances last month, a group of advocates announced they would start gathering signatures to place it on the ballot.
Following the minimum wage discussion, Bonilla and Deputy Mayor David Lim suggested the city discuss placing the initiative on the ballot to give the voters a say.
But the remaining council did not agree to place it on a future agenda, instead opting to let the advocates proceed with attempting to gather the required signatures to put it to a vote.
If we care about minimum wage, we care about the rights of people to earn a decent wage and live in dignity in this community, everything I heard here today says we should at least give those folks the right to go to the ballot, Lim said. Minimum wage is not going to solve this problem alone. To me, its completely inconsistent message that were sending, that we care about people making minimum wage, but are not willing to protect them.
Tags:
increase, council, minimum, business, would, small,
Other stories from today:
Options narrow for Woodside Road fix: Interchange improvements at Highway 101 to cost $140MFishLine app informs consumers looking to buy the freshest catchSan Mateo County police reports
Print this Page
|
Daily Journal Quick Poll
Is the cost of living in the Bay Area worth it?
Definitely yes
For the most part
Sometimes
Getting to be no
Definitely not
Our User Agreement
Our Privacy Policy
Home
Local News
State / National / World
Sports
Opinion / Letters
Business
Arts / Entertainment
Lifestyle
Obituaries
Calendar
Submit Event
Newsletter Signup
Comics / Games
Classifieds
DJ Designers
Archives
Advertise With Us
Contact Us
About Us
SiteMap
2016 San Mateo Daily Journal
San Mateo County help wanted