Login
Signup
FILMFARE.	com
Home|
News|
Photos|
Videos|
Interviews|
Reviews|
Features |
Magazine|
Filmfare Awards
Leave your comment below 0
Features
The most awaited films of 2016
Written By
Written By Ushnota Paul
Deputy Features Editor
Posted Tue, May 3, 2016
Rate Story
Rated
Rate
Share This Story
0
Befikre
Release date: December 9, 2016
Director: Aditya Chopra
Cast: Ranveer Singh, Vaani Kapoor
We are finally getting an Aditya Chopra movie after 2008s Rab Ne Bana Di Jodi so the exhilaration level is at an all-time high. We are also looking forward to watch the unusual new pairing of Ranveer and Vaani - and if their lip-lock in the teaser poster is anything to go by, then we will probably need a fire brigade by our side while watching the movie!
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25
Next
Previous
More on:
Azhar, Waiting, Naseeruddin Shah, Kalki Koechlin, Emraan Hashmi, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, Sarbjit, Randeep Hooda, Housefull 3, Riteish Deshmukh, Akshay Kumar, Lisa Haydon, Abhishek Bachchan, Udta Punjab, Shahid Kapoor, Alia Bhatt, Kareena Kapoor Khan, Shah Rukh Khan, Salman Khan, Dishoom, Jacqueline Fernandez, Diana Penty, Abhay Deol, Jagga Jasoos, Ranbir Kapoor, Katrina Kaif, Mohenjo Daro, Hrithik Roshan, Banjo, Tiger Shroff, A Flying Jatt, Remo Dsouza, Dhoni - The Untold Story, Sushant Singh Rajput, Rangoon, Saif Ali Khan, Ae Dil
Next
PREVIOUS STORY
Himesh Reshammiya on Salman Khan, his survival mantra and making music
Previous
NEXT STORY
10 times Hollywood and Bollywood divas matched their outfits!
You might also like
Salman Khan, Shah Rukh Khan and The...
Shahid Kapoor, Alia Bhatt, Kareena...
Shah Rukh Khan, Salman Khan, Kareena...
Kareena Kapoor Khan and Saif Ali Khan...
Shah Rukh Khan, Ranbir Kapoor, Kangana...
Shah Rukh Khan and Aishwarya Rai...
Kareena Kapoor Khans airport diaries
Anand L Rai talks about working with...
Write your comment here...
Related Videos
Check out...
Don't miss...
The trailer of...
Related Galleries
Jacqueline...
Ranbir Kapoor and...
Hrithik Roshan...
Celebs Tweet
RT @mannumaheshaa: @Meethi19 @Kailashkher @iyers77 @pareshkamath @nkbass @engineerbyheart there's a series of hit, love emotional songs of
Kailashkher (@Kailashkher)
(0 min ago )
RT @Just1Jyotsna: @Kailashkher Beauty meet fierceness of eagle just like ur songs it's beautiful :)
Kailashkher (@Kailashkher)
(0 min ago )
Next
Previous
TODAY
|
ALL TIME
MOST POPULAR
Inside pictures from Bipasha Basu and Karan Singh Grover's #MonkeyWedding
From the adorable photobooth made with...
Ajay Devgn and Kajol celebrate son Yugs birthday
So cute!Now this is a rare sighting! We...
Priyanka Chopra dazzles at the White House
A first-time invitee to the prestigious White...
Bollywood dines with the royal couple
Breaking the internet right now is the...
Inside pictures from Arpita Khans baby shower
Stars who attended Arpita Khans baby...
Lovebirds Bipasha-Karans candid pictures from their mehendi ceremony
Bipasha Basu and Karan Singh Grover are...
TODAY
|
ALL TIME
MOST COMMENTED
20Hrithik Roshan-Kangana Ranaut war: The complete detailed story4Editor Speaks: Everybody loves Ranveer Singh2Chiranjeevi to launch his 150th film1Humpty reunites with his Dulhania!
17
Amitabh Bachchan, Kangana Ranaut win big at the 63rd National Awards
15
Sridevi's top 5 dance numbers
10
Deepika Padukone's next Hollywood film is with Brad Pitt?
6
Movie Review: Fan
ON THE COVER
Parineeti Chopra
Tweets by @filmfare
Follow Us:
Privacy Policy |
Terms & Condition
Other sites: Indiatimes | The Times of India | The Economic Times | Zoom TV | Times Now | One Click | HotKlix
Copyright
2016 Times Internet Limited. All Rights Reserved.