Subscribe
Sign In
Register
Home
Subscribe
Buy E-N Merchandise
Contact Us
About Us
Advertise With Us
Subscriber Services
Place a Classified Ad
Privacy Policy
Site Terms of Use
Newsletters & Text Alerts
Find a Business in S.A.
News Archives
Warren Buffett to join Texas Business Hall of Fame at San Antonio
Flawed Vista Ridge project doesnt make sense
VIA is an asset to Castle Hills
The 80s belonged to Prince
Local
News by Neighborhood
Texas
Obituaries
Traffic
Weather
Lake and River Levels
S.A. History
Guide to San Antonio
San Antonio Charity
Breaking News Video
Classifieds
Apparent murder-suicide leaves three dead in far West Side home
San Antonio chef to cook at the White House for Cinco de Mayo
Gasoline assault nets 90-year sentence
SAPD: 2 arrested after failed robbery of construction crew fails,
US & World
Breaking News Anywhere
Border & Mexico
US
World
Health Care
Politics
Military
Track Flights
Strange News
Authorities: Evidence of pot, cockfighting at killing scenes
Cleveland settles lawsuit over Tamir Rice shooting for $6M
The Latest: Police say Tamir Rice's kin should educate kids
Blowing dust closes I-10 stretch between Arizona, New Mexico
Business
Local
Eagle Ford & Energy
National & International
Automotive News
Top Workplaces in S.A.
Technology
Business Features
Finance Features
Business Careers
Tech Features
Press Releases
Warren Buffett to join Texas Business Hall of Fame at San Antonio
H-E-B buys more land near downtown headquarters
Blue Cross confirms its reached agreement with HCA
Methodist: Blue Cross Blue Shield reaches deal with HCA in Texas
Sports
San Antonio Spurs
NBA
NFL
MLB
Soccer
Colleges
College Football
College Basketball
High Schools
High School Football
High School Basketball
Spurs vs. Thunder: Early thoughts
Big inning hurts Morrow in Missions loss
Warren senior in first at UIL 6A golf
Golf: Mondays high school results
Food
Restaurants
Food Voted Best in S.A.
Recipes & Cooking
Bars & Drinks
Snacks and Entertaining
Guide to Food in S.A.
Sponsored: Sip, Savor, Celebrate
San Antonio chef to cook at the White House for Cinco de Mayo
Yard House sets opening date for downtown San Antonio location
Bohanan's bartender wins Patrn's Margarita of the Year contest
Review: Bella on the River a downtown gem for locals
Entertainment
What S.A. is Watching
Things To Do
Fiesta 2016
Rodeo 2016
Celebrity Buzz
Comics
Puzzles
Horoscope
Movies & TV
Music & Stage
Arts & Culture
Guide to San Antonio
Readers' Choice
Photos at S.A. Parties
Destinations
Duran Duran announces San Antonio concert
Lil' Kim's lighter complexion, blond hair sparks controversy on
Dick Cheney By Jenny Browne
Life after Fiesta: 16 things to know about in San Antonio this
Lifestyle
Wedding Announcements
Bridal Ideas
Travel & Outdoors
Destinations
Health & Family
Senior Living
Home & Garden
Home Decorating
Trends & Style
Beauty and Fitness Tips
Better Living Tips
Gift Ideas
Pets
Green Living
H-E-B Showdown winners slim down by eating healthy
Get to know your souvenirs at this Florida shell museum
Newarks Little Portugal
Bamboo raft washes up on Padre Island National Seashore after
Opinion
Editorials
Commentary
Letters to the Editor
Columnists
Third & Ave. E
Editorial Cartoons
Josh Brodesky
Robert Seltzer
O. Ricardo Pimentel
Bruce Davidson
Maria Anglin
Gloria Padilla
VIA is an asset to Castle Hills
The 80s belonged to Prince
Value in diversity in appointments
Your Turn: April 26
Cars
Car Tips and Help
News & Reviews
Vehicle Search
Car Features
Latest Car Reviews
Toyota 2016 Tacoma TRD Off Road model is great for the beach or
Azera sedan gives the Hyundai brand a premium model based on the
Nissan rolls out second version of the Titan: a shorter half-ton
Jobs
Salary Wizard
Top Workplaces
Career Features
Agency to Hawaii residents: Don't hate on tourists
One UK steel town, one crisis that affects the nation
US applications for jobless aid fall to four-decade low
Homes
Home Search
Apartment Search
Land
Rentals
Open Houses
New Homes Search
Hill Country Living
New Construction
Real Estate Tips
Home Yard Tips
Home DIY
Kitchen, Bed and Bath
Home Decorating
H-E-B buys more land near downtown headquarters
Sponsored: Open houses in San Antonio this weekend
Castle Hills Church putting 20-acre campus up for sale
Central Texas lakefront mansion hits market for first time in
Find&Save
MenuSections
http://www.mysanantonio.com/business/technology/article/Hollywood-is-pushing-reset-button-on-video-game-7320015.php
'Ratchet,' 'Warcraft' and the new breed of video game movies
Derrik J. Lang, Ap Entertainment Writer
Updated 11:12pm, Monday, April 25, 2016
Photo: AP
Image 1of/3
CaptionClose
Image 1 of 3
This image released by Universal Pictures shows the character Durotan, voiced by Toby Kebbell, from the film, "Warcraft," based on the Blizzard Entertainment video game. (Universal Pictures via AP)
This image released by Universal Pictures shows the character Durotan, voiced by Toby Kebbell, from the film, "Warcraft," based on the Blizzard Entertainment video game. (Universal Pictures via AP)
Photo: AP
Image 2 of 3
In this image released by 20th Century Fox, Michael Fassbender portrays Callum Lynch
in "Assassin's Creed." From the reviled 1993 live-action rendition of "Super Mario Bros." to last year's loathed arcade-inspired "Pixels," big-screen interpretations of games have almost always failed to score with critics and audiences. With four films based on popular interactive series set for release in 2016, this could be the year a video game movie wins over filmgoers. (Kerry Brown/20th Century Fox via AP) less
In this image released by 20th Century Fox, Michael Fassbender portrays Callum Lynch
in "Assassin's Creed." From the reviled 1993 live-action rendition of "Super Mario Bros." to last year's loathed ... more
Photo: Kerry Brown, AP
Image 3 of 3
In thisimage released by Gramercy Pictures, from left, Captain Qwark voiced by Jim Ward,
Ratchet voiced by James Arnold Taylor, Clank voiced by David Kaye, Cora voiced by Bella Thorne and Brax, voiced by Vincent Tong, appear in a scene from, "Ratchet and Clank." From the reviled 1993 live-action rendition of "Super Mario Bros." to last year's loathed arcade-inspired "Pixels," big-screen interpretations of games have almost always failed to score with critics and audiences. With four films based on popular interactive series set for release in 2016, this could be the year a video game movie wins over filmgoers. (Gramercy Pictures
via AP) less
In thisimage released by Gramercy Pictures, from left, Captain Qwark voiced by Jim Ward,
Ratchet voiced by James Arnold Taylor, Clank voiced by David Kaye, Cora voiced by Bella Thorne and Brax, voiced by ... more
Photo: AP
'Ratchet,' 'Warcraft' and the new breed of video game movies
1/3
Back to Gallery
LOS ANGELES (AP)
At long last, it seems Hollywood has pushed the reset button on its approach to video game adaptations.From the reviled 1993 live-action rendition of "Super Mario Bros." to last year's loathed arcade-inspired "Pixels," big-screen interpretations of games have almost always failed to score with critics and audiences. With four films based on popular interactive series set for release in 2016, could this finally be the year video game movies win over filmgoers?
After decades of commercial and critical pitfalls when attempting to turn games into movies, Hollywood is trying out a few bold new strategies in an effort to tap the interactive medium for the latest hit movie franchise, including hiring A-list talent and collaborating more closely with game makers to rework their immersive creations for movie theaters.___"RATCHET & CLANK"The first to launch is an animated film out Friday based on Insomniac Games' zany platforming series for Sony's PlayStation systems, starring wise-cracking alien tinkerer Ratchet and his witty robot sidekick Clank. The game creators didn't simply foist their 14-year-old franchise onto filmmakers. They insisted on joining forces.
"Ratchet & Clank" features several of the interactive series' original voice actors with a story by former Insomniac Games senior writer T.J. Fixman. The game studio also outsourced a few of their own artists to work with the film's animators to guarantee their intergalactic romp looked and stayed true to what made the game franchise a victory."It's crucial for anyone who works with the worlds and characters that we created to fully understand them," said Ted Price, CEO of Insomniac Games. "We had lots of open conversations with everyone working on the project. As game creators, we always want to tell more stories. This was just another way to do that for an audience that's hungry for it."Over the past 20 years, game publishers have typically handed over movie rights to Hollywood with little to no creative control. While the results have sometimes hit the mark ("Tomb Raider," ''Resident Evil"), they're usually unsuccessful undertakings that veer way off course from the originals ("Doom," ''Double Dragon.")Shawn Layden, president of Sony Interactive Entertainment America, said he's been working with Rainmaker Entertainment and Blockade Entertainment to faithfully adapt "Ratchet & Clank" and silly stealth series "Sly Cooper" into animated films, as well with his colleagues at Sony Pictures to craft live-action versions of treasure-hunting adventure "Uncharted" and post-apocalyptic saga "The Last of Us.""I'm old enough to remember a time when people thought it was crazy to make movies out of comic books," said Layden. "That's certainly changed over the last decade. The really great games now have narratives featuring all sorts of age-old storytelling tropes. It's become another great fountain of content that can be applied across other media."___"THE ANGRY BIRDS MOVIE"The largest leap for a game-based film this year will be from smartphones to multiplexes. Columbia Pictures, a division of Sony, will spread its wings May 20 with "The Angry Birds Movie." The full-length animated film features Jason Sudeikis, Josh Gad and Danny McBride voicing a trio of feathered characters inspired by Rovio Entertainment's mobile gaming sensation."Back in 2009 when we first created 'Angry Birds,' we made it deliberately character based so that if it were successful, we could take it beyond games," said Mikael Hed, executive chairman at Rovio Animation studios and former CEO of Rovio Entertainment. "We actually have been holding back on the backstory of this world until now. It's wonderful we're going to be able to tell it now in this way."___"WARCRAFT"For a live-action version of the role-playing odyssey "Warcraft," Legendary Entertainment and series creator Blizzard Entertainment turned to "Moon" and "Source Code" director Duncan Jones, who's actually logged countless hours playing games from the 21-year-old fantasy series. The film starring Travis Fimmel is scheduled to debut June 10."It's not unlike adapting a novel or a comic book," said Jones. "I believe I'm a serious filmmaker. I know what it is I want to do with this movie. The source material is not what's going to decide whether a movie I make is good or bad. It's how I treat it and what I do with it."___"ASSASSIN'S CREED"After losing its footing with the Disney film "Prince of Persia: Sands of Time" starring Jake Gyllenhaal in 2010, game publisher Ubisoft launched a film division in 2011 to independently transform its own game franchises into movies. The first is "Assassin's Creed," which is scheduled for release Dec. 21 and stars Michael Fassbender and Marion Cotillard."I think we've done something pretty original," said Fassbender. "All of the stunt work, when we were out in Malta, was happening on site in real locations with stunt teams that are absolutely amazing. They were jumping from building to building in Mdina, the old town in Malta."Ubisoft's dive into filmmaking will continue in the coming years with a "Splinter Cell" adaptation starring Tom Hardy as protagonist Sam Fisher, as well as a "Ghost Recon" movie produced by "Transformers" filmmaker Michael Bay. The game maker is also working to turn its hacker adventure "Watch Dogs" into a film.___With movie studios having already mined many comics and books for inspiration, comScore senior media analyst Paul Dergarabedian believes the time is right for the interactive medium to spawn a hit that outpaces "Lara Croft: Tomb Raider," the most successful game adaptation in box office history."This is a genre waiting to erupt," said Dergarabedian. "It's a huge untapped resource that's yet to be fully realized on the big screen and grab a huge audience."___Online:
http://www.ratchetandclankthemovie.com
http://www.angrybirds-movie.com
http://www.warcraftmovie.com
http://www.foxmovies.com/movies/assassins-creed
___Follow AP Entertainment Writer Derrik J. Lang on Twitter at http://www.twitter.com/derrikjlang . His work can be found at http://bigstory.ap.org/content/derrik-j-lang .
Latest Business News
The Decline of Small Business, Explained by M&T Bank CEO...
Can Carter's, Inc. Sustain Its Momentum?
This Move Won't Get Twitter Into China
20% Profit Surge Lifts Textron Stock
Warren Buffett to join Texas Business Hall of Fame at San...
What Is the Retirement Age in the USA?
Trader Joe's Pinches Whole Foods Market Inc. on Price
Roper Technologies Is Set for a Better Second Half
Can Arrowhead Do For Hep B What Gilead Sciences Did For Hep C?
Microsoft's Phone Business Has Gotten So Bad It's Giving Away...
Compass Minerals Overcomes a Mild Winter With Solid Salt Earnings
Why Perrigo, U.S. Steel, and GoPro Slumped Today
Container Store Soars on Positive Comps, Turnaround Hopes
Chipotle Hopes Its $31 Million Gamble Pays Off
Why Gannett, Changyou.com, and Time Warner Cable Jumped Today
Business Videos
Stay Connected
Most Popular
1
Brief scattering of hail hits S.A. Monday, more storms coming
2
Lawyer: Johnny Manziel will be indicted by grand jury
3
Marc Gasol believes his All-Star brother, Pau, will sign with...
4
Ariel Winters Breast Burst Out Of Her Top At Coachella
5
Here are 21 things you probably didn't know about Tim Duncan...
6
Lil' Kim's lighter complexion, blond hair sparks controversy...
7
Costco memberships are about to get more expensive
View Comments
2016 Hearst Communications, Inc.
Logo
Return to Top
About
Corporate Home
Careers
Advertising
Ad Choices
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights
Contact
FAQ
Newsroom Contacts
Purchase Photos
Place a Classified Ad
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Instagram
Subscribe
San Antonio Express-News
ExpressNews.com
iPad app
eEdition
Search Our News Archive
Manage Your Subscription
Hearst Newspapers
Copyright Hearst Newspapers, LLC