Employers
VCs
Sign In
Dashboard
Search Jobs
Browse Jobs
Your Profile
Advanced Search
Within 50 kilometers
AUBEBRCACNCZDKFIFRDEHKISINIEILITJPKRNLNZNOPHRUSGESSECHAEGBUS
Countries
Return to Basic Search
Build a custom search by adding criteria below
Add Criteria
Back to Search
Apply Now
Follow @startuphire
Miami, FL Categories:Accounting Jobs in Miami, FLDeveloper Jobs in Miami, FLEngineering Jobs in Miami, FLIT Jobs in Miami, FLMarketing Jobs in Miami, FLMobile Jobs in Miami, FLSales Jobs in Miami, FL Search by Job TitleSenior Developer JobsSQL Developer JobsReporting Analyst JobsSenior .Net Developer JobsBusiness Development Analyst JobsSupport Analyst JobsSalesforce Developer Jobs
SQL Report Developer/Analyst Open English
Location: Miami, FL, United States Date Posted: 03-22-2016 Apply Now
Position Overview:
Open English is seeking an expert in SQL development for our new Business Intelligence Analyst role at our global headquarters office in Coconut Grove, FL. As a member of the BI team, you will be responsible for collecting report requirements, performing data analysis, producing ad hoc and on-demand, scorecards, dashboards and other solutions.
Responsibilities:
Development of reporting in SQL
Responsible for run time performance and tuning of queries
Develop new reports in SSRS and Tibco Spotfire (or similar)
Responsible for understanding and addressing user requirements, their strategies, and their goals
Minimum Qualifications:
Must be based in Coconut Grove, FL office and work authorization in the U.S. is required
3+ years of experience with SQL, SSRS (or similar) and Report Builder
Clear communication in English required; Spanish a plus
Strong understanding of Microsoft SQL Server and T-SQL
Strong mathematical, analytical, and statistical skills
Strong Excel Skills
Experienced using Stored Procedures and Functions
Enjoys diving into various data sets and doing extensive research and analysis
Good understanding of database and data warehousing concepts (i.e. Indexing, Slowly Changing Dimensions)
Professional, friendly, and courteous demeanor to work well with teammates and business partners
Ability to work well both independently and in diverse teams
Preferred Qualifications:
Prior experience in Finance
Prior experience working in sales organizations, specifically B2C sales
Prior experience with Tibco Spotfire
Position Classification:
Full Time, Benefit-Eligible
Work Schedule:
Flexible Hours
Reports To:
Director, Business Intelligence
Company Overview:
Open English is a leading Education Technology company focused on English language learning for the Latin American and U.S. Hispanic markets. The company was founded in 2007 to reinvent the way to teach English online, to meet the needs of busy working professionals. The platform offers on-demand content as well as personalized, live classes 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, with teachers who are all native English speakers. Students of Open English enjoy a unique, practical and fun learning experience that caters to their own schedule and pace.
To date, the company has offered its online English classes to over 400,000 students all over Latin America ? including Brazil ? and to the Spanish-speaking community in the United States. Open English offices are located in Miami, Bogota, Sao Paulo, Caracas and Buenos Aires.
The company has been featured in the Wall Street Journal, CNN en Espa-ol, NBC, and many Latin American media outlets. To date, Open English has raised $120M in funding - the third highest in Ed Tech history and has been named by PitchBook (2014) as the fifth most valuable Ed Tech company in the world.
We are an equal opportunity employer and value diversity at our company. We do not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, color, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, veteran status, or disability status.
Location:
Miami, FL
United States
Save This Job Apply NowE-mail To A Friend
Open English
Investors: Flybridge Capital Partners All Jobs: at Open English
Web Site:www.openenglish.com
Headquarters:00000
United States
Support Open English with Social Media services
Find more SQL Report Developer/Analyst jobs
Close
More jobs at venture capital backed companies.
Near Miami, FL
The StartUpHire web site requires javascript to function properly.
Home
Dashboard
Search Jobs
Browse Jobs
Blog
Your Profile
About StartUpHire
Team
In The News
Press Releases
Partners
FAQ
Contact Us
Preferences
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Employers
Talent Vault
Auto-Recruiter
Featured Company
Social Media Mega
Venture Investors
Portfolio Jobs
Executive Database
Social Media Mega
Support the Industry
Copyright 2016 StartUpHireWeb Development by Zurka Interactive