SECURITYWEEK NETWORK:
Information Security News
Infosec Island
Suits and Spooks
Security Experts:
WRITE FOR US
Subscribe (Free)
CISO Forum 2016
ICS Cyber Security Conference
Contact Us
Malware & ThreatsVulnerabilities
Email Security
Virus & Malware
White Papers
Endpoint Security
CybercrimeCyberwarfare
Fraud & Identity Theft
Phishing
Malware
Tracking & Law Enforcement
Whitepapers
Mobile & WirelessMobile Security
Wireless Security
Risk & ComplianceRisk Management
Compliance
Privacy
Whitepapers
Security ArchitectureCloud Security
Identity & Access
Data Protection
White Papers
Network Security
Application Security
Management & StrategyRisk Management
Security Architecture
Disaster Recovery
Training & Certification
Incident Response
SCADA / ICS
Home
Tracking & Law EnforcementGozi Malware Creator Sentenced to Time Served
By Eduard Kovacs on May 03, 2016
Tweet
Nikita Kuzmin, a 28-year-old Russian national who created the notorious Gozi banking Trojan, has been sentenced to time served and ordered to pay nearly $7 million.
Kuzmin was arrested in the U.S. in November 2010 and pleaded guilty to various computer intrusion and fraud charges in 2011. The FBI announced in 2013 that the man faced up to 95 years in prison, but a judge sentenced him on Monday to the 37 months he had already spent in custody. The lighter sentence has been attributed to the fact that Kuzmin cooperated with prosecutors.
In addition to Kuzmin, the United States brought charges against Latvian national Deniss Calovskis and Romanian national Mihai Ionut Paunescu. Calovskis, who is said to have written the web injects that allowed the Gozi malware to steal banking information from users, was also sentenced to time served in January. Paunescu, who is accused of providing bulletproof hosting for the malware infrastructure, was arrested in Romania in 2012 and currently awaits extradition to the U.S.
According to prosecutors, Kuzmin made at least a quarter of a million dollars from renting and selling Gozi. He was one of the first cybercriminals to make money by renting malware to others.
The Gozi malware is believed to have caused losses totaling tens of millions of dollars after infecting more than one million computers in the United States and several European countries.
Kuzmin is not the only cybercriminal sentenced in recent weeks. Last month, a Moscow court sentenced Dmitry Fedotov, aka Paunch, the man who created the Blackhole exploit kit, to seven years in prison.
A few days later, the U.S. Justice Department announced that Aleksandr Andreevich Panin, a Russian national who created and distributed the SpyEye Trojan, had been sentenced to nine years and six months in prison. Hamza Bendelladj, who helped Panin advertise and deliver SpyEye, was sentenced by the same court to 15 years in prison.
Also in April, Estonian national Vladimir Tsastsin was sentenced to 87 months in prison for his role in a massive internet fraud scheme involving the DNSChanger malware.
Related Reading: Hybrid Trojan "GozNym" Targets North American Banks
Related Reading: Former Nuclear Agency Worker Sentenced to Prison for Attempted Hack
Tweet
Previous Columns by Eduard Kovacs:Gozi Malware Creator Sentenced to Time ServedGoogle Patches 40 Vulnerabilities in AndroidMillions of Credentials Exposed by PwnedList FlawAccellion Patches Flaws Found During Facebook HackSerious Flaw Found in "PL/SQL Developer" Update System
Visit The RSA Advanced Security Operations Resource Center
Download Free Security Resources from the SecurityWeek White Paper Library
View Our Library of on Demand Security Webcasts
CISO Forum 2016
- Ritz-Carlton, Half Moon Bay, CA [June 1-2]
sponsored links
Tags: INDUSTRY INSIGHTS
Tracking & Law Enforcement
View the discussion thread.
Subscribe to SecurityWeek
Most RecentMost Read
Gozi Malware Creator Sentenced to Time Served
Google Patches 40 Vulnerabilities in Android
Bitcoin Claim Ripples Through Virtual Currency World
'Secure Coding as a Service' Firm Sqreen Raises $2.3 Million
Compromised RDP Servers Used in Corporate Ransomware Attacks
Millions of Credentials Exposed by PwnedList Flaw
Australian Craig Wright Says He Created Bitcoin
Accellion Patches Flaws Found During Facebook Hack
The Rapid Evolution of Ransomware in the Enterprise
Serious Flaw Found in "PL/SQL Developer" Update System
Looking for Malware in All the Wrong Places?
First Step For The Internet's next 25 years: Adding Security to the DNS
Tattle Tale: What Your Computer Says About You
Be in a Position to Act Through Cyber Situational Awareness
Report Shows Heavily Regulated Industries Letting Social Networking Apps Run Rampant
2010, A Great Year To Be a Scammer.
Don't Let DNS be Your Single Point of Failure
How to Identify Malware in a Blink
Defining and Debating Cyber Warfare
The Five As that Make Cybercrime so Attractive
How to Defend Against DDoS Attacks
Security Budgets Not in Line with Threats
Anycast - Three Reasons Why Your DNS Network Should Use It
The Evolution of the Extended Enterprise: Security Strategies for Forward Thinking Organizations
Using DNS Across the Extended Enterprise: Its Risky Business
Popular Threads
Popular Topics
Information Security News
IT Security News
Risk Management
Cybercrime
Cloud Security
Application Security
Smart Device Security
Security Community
IT Security Newsletters
IT Security White Papers
Suits and Spooks
ICS Cyber Security Conference
CISO Forum
InfosecIsland.Com
Stay Intouch
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn Group
Cyber Weapon Discussion Group
RSS Feed
Submit Tip
Security Intelligence Group
About SecurityWeek
Team
Advertising
Events
Writing Opportunities
Feedback
Contact Us
Copyright
2016 Wired Business Media. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy | Terms of Use