
Exploring solar energy options to bridge nations electricity supply gap.

That Nigerias greatest challenge to improve its economic performance ratings is electricity remains indubitable. With several billions of naira spent by successive governments over the past decade to improve turbine and watered-powered electricity plants translating to nothing in terms of power generation and distribution nationwide, analysts are now rooting for solarpowered alternative source to close the nations electricity gap. Chidi Ugwu, reports.
Inadequate supply of electricity is unarguably one of the major problems militating against Nigerias socio-economic development as its use is directly correlated with healthy economic growth. With a population of 170 million only about 40 per cent of the people are connected to the energy grid making the sector a priority for researchers who on daily basis search for solutions to the countrys endemic energy crisis. Nigerians have expressed deep concern over the lingering energy crisis, describing as unacceptable the huge mental, physical and financial burdens the situation has inflicted on the people. For instance, in the past two months as used to be the case under previous administrations in the past decade, motorists and other categories of petroleum products consumers across the country grappled with problems associated with acute scarcity of premium motor spirit, popularly called petrol, as they stayed in long queues at filling stations in search of the elusive commodity. The electricity situation, which is coming at a time Nigerians have agonised for months the high tariffs imposed early this year by the Nigerian Electric- 24 ity Regulatory Commission, NERC and the declining electricity supply in recent times, appears to be unbearable for most homes and businesses. As expected, a group of young Nigerian professionals under the aegis of the Oak Leadership Initiative (OLI), which focuses on Nigerias leadership rebirth, said at the weekend that its members were worried that successive governments have failed to find lasting solutions to the problem.
The convener of the group, Emrys Ijaola, in a statement indicated that the situation had become even more worrisome as the massive energy crisis has worsened the huge economic burdens its members, like most Nigerians, have had to grapple with since the crisis began. He stated: President Muhammadu Buhari, as the Minister for Petroleum Resources, must take full responsibility of the situation and ensure the immediate resolution of the energy crisis, rather than resort to unending apologies to Nigerians. It is ironic and a big shame that the long queues at petrol stations across the country have become a permanent feature of our cities in a country that is reputed to be the one of the worlds leading producers of oil. It is sad that the government has not been able to fulfil its various promises to end the crisis, despite the problems the crisis has generated, including the apparent constriction of the economy, Ijaola lamented. The group indicted the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC; the Department of Petroleum Resources, DPR and the Petroleum Products Pricing Regulatory Agency, PPPRA for failure to effective discharge their supply, distribution, monitoring and regulatory functions. Outside Abuja and Lagos State, the group noted that fuel was sold at discretionary prices fixed by the marketers, because the DPR and the PPPRA have all abandoned their monitoring and regulatory functions, with consumers compelled to buy at any price. Ijaola described as inexcusably the acute fuel scarcity in the country, saying it has further compounded the problems associated with the terribly poor generation and distribution of electricity and the high electricity tariffs imposed on consumers are made to pay. He said the long-term solution to the fuel crisis remained sanitizing the oil and gas industry, security of oil facilities and the establishment of more refineries, including modular refineries as opposed to the present massive importation of petroleum products. However, going by the solutions proffered by energy experts, there may be some improvement in the nations persistent energy capacity using solar and other renewable energy sources.
The Chief Executive Officer of Blue Camel Energy Limited, Mr. Suleiman Yusuf, argued that deploying solar energy is cheaper for both industrial and residential use. According to him, the solar solution is scalable in the sense that one can choose to run machineries when the sun is out for most industrial use but for residential it become necessary to store energy using battery for use at nights. Solar is also scalable, and industrial use is even cheaper because for most industrial use you can choose to run your machineries when the sun is out he said. Yusuf said that for the best use of solar solution, a 24 year business plan can prove that solar is far cheaper than the normal grid, especially when applied in industrial use. Giving cost benefits analysis of solar energy, the energy expert, explained that it cost about N970 per day to supply uninterrupted solar electricity for a duplex, which carry any electrical appliances including Air-conditioners, refrigerators among other things, arguing that any stable power supply at cost is a better deal anywhere. Also, a report released by international development organisation Oxfam argues that renewable energy is in fact a more affordable energy source than coal for poor people in developing countries around the world.
The report argues that as a result of the changing energy landscape around the world, the decreasing price of renewable energies, and the often remote location of the majority of people who dont have access to electricity, renewable energy may actually offer a more reliable and effective energy source. According to the report of Dr Simon Bradshaw, Four out of five people without electricity live in rural areas that are often not connected to a centralised energy grid, so local, renewable energy solutions offer a much more affordable, practical and healthy solution. In Nigeria, there is rapid population growth, increase in industrial activities and more energy is consumed, resulting in environmental pollution and economic difficulties. There is need for renewable energy resources utilization globally. For example, the country has adequate fuel supplies (worlds sixth largest exporter of crude oil) yet more than 70 percent of its inhabitants do not have access to electricity for their domestic needs. Renewable energy penetration in Nigeria is still in its nascent stage. It is below that of other widely known energy sources due to technological and economic drawbacks, in addition to deep rooted policy inertia. The only source of renewable energy in the country is hydro-power and biomass; wind and solar energy have only been deployed in minuscule amount. Hydroelectric power plants with installed capacity and those coming on stream cumulatively accounting for roughly 13,000MW. Experts say that it is estimated that when one per cent of Nigerias land area is covered with a solar technology of 5 per cent efficiency, about 333,480MW of electricity may be produced at about 26 per cent capacity factor.
This electricity generation capacity will be more than enough for the country, up to 2050, that will conveniently support 11 per cent -13 per cent economic growth rates as envisioned by vision 20:2020. Solar energy is capital intensive but it is an area Nigeria can explore to meet up with the energy needs of the Nigerian people. Some argue that the risks facing poor people are often increased by the unsustainable use of biomass resources. For instance, solar energy has the greatest potential to contribute enormous amount of low carbon energy in Nigeria through solar PV and solar thermal process. It may be transformed directly into heat using solar collectors or directly to electricity using solar PV cells. From the NIMETs info sheet, Nigeria is endowed with an annual daily sunshine that is averagely 6.25 hours, which is ranging between about 3.5 hours at the coastal areas of the northern boundary of the nations and also has an annual average daily solar radiation of about 3.5 KWm2/day in the coastal area which is in the southern part and 7.0 KWm2/ day at the northern boundary. Nigeria receives about 4909.212 kWh of energy from the sun which is equivalent to about 1.082 million tonnes of oil; this is about 4000 times the current crude oil production per day, and also put at about 13 thousand times of daily natural gas production based on energy unit. According to reports, Nigeria has the potential to exploit its abundant solar energy resources considering its geographic location around the equatorial sun-belt. The country receives abundant sunshine all year round ranging from 6.70kwh/m2/day in Borno State to roughly 4.06kwh/m2/d to 5.86kwh/m2/d in locations such as Calabar in Cross Rivers State.
The Federal Capital Territory has a daily horizontal solar radiation ranging from a high of 6.07/kwh/m2/d to a low of 4.42/kwh/ m2/d during the month of August. This level of solar radiation across the country can support huge deployment of solar power infrastructures designed to primarily feed in to the regional power distribution entities. The size of the area troubled by the insurgents in Borno State can supply sufficient power required by the entire country if well harnessed. The Executive Secretary of the Renewable Energy Network for the 21st Century, Christine Lins, noted that last year, for the first time in 40 years, economic and emissions growth have decoupled. The Renewable Energy Network was recently responsible for producing a global study of renewable energy growth over the last 10 years. What they find now, is quite surprising, even to its authors. If you look back 10 years ago, Renewable energies were providing 3 per cent of global energy, and now, they provide something close to 22 per cent, so that has really sky-rocketed noted Christine. This is being led most obviously by countries like Uruguay, which aims to generate 90% of its electricity from renewable sources by 2015, and Costa Rica, which maintained 100% renewable energy generation for the first 100 days of this year. These countries are not alone and are fast becoming the normal rather than the alternative. Even small developing countries such as Burundi, Jordan and Kenya are leading the world in investments in renewable energies as a percentage of GDP. Worldwide investments in renewable technologies amounted to more than US$214 billion in 2013, with countries like China and the United States heavily investing in wind, hydro, solar and biofuels. Renewable energy is energy that comes from resources which are naturally replenished on a human timescale such as sunlight, wind, rain, tides, waves, and geothermal heat. Renewable energy replaces conventional fuels in four distinct areas: electricity generation, air and water heating/cooling, motor fuels, and rural (off-grid) energy services. Renewable energy is one of the means of tackling the global challenges of climate change. It is now being seen by many people around the world as a costeffective development solution for developed countries and a developing country such as Nigeria.

