Menu
Home
English Premier League
La Liga
Serie A
Bundesliga
UEFA Champions League
Football Transfers
Archives
Contact
Advertise
JohnnyBet
Home
English Premier League
La Liga
Serie A
Bundesliga
UEFA Champions League
Football Transfers
Archives
Contact
Advertise
JohnnyBet
Cesc Fabregas AGREES to 30m Chelsea move
report
Tom Gatehouse
5 June, 2014
Arsenal, Barcelona, Blogroll, Cesc Fabregas, Chelsea, English Premier League, Football Transfers, General Football News, Manchester United, Site News
According to the trustworthy guys at talkSPORT, Barcelona midfielder Cesc Fabregas has agreed to move to Chelsea this summer, coming in as a direct replacement for the outgoing Frank Lampard at Stamford Bridge.
The report, published in the last hour, claims that the playerwas toldthat hewould be leaving his boyhood club for a second time,having rejoinedthree years ago fromArsenal, and that Chelsea have beaten Manchester United to his signature.
The rumour mill went into overdrive last night concerning Fabregas proposed move back to the Premier League, with a number of Spanish publications claiming a deal to take him to West London had been rubber-stamped.
Read more
The Transfer Lens: Cesc Fabregas to Chelsea?
The now infamous Gerard Pique video also appeared on the web, with the Spanish defender seemingly informing national team boss Vicente del Bosquethat Cesc was all set to leave Barcelona.
The new report from talkSPORT will add credence to the rumours, which were under attack a few times last night, not least by Spanish football expert Guillem Balague, who claimed that despite the Pique video and rumours, no deal had been agreedyet.
Cesc hasnt got a deal with Chelsea, it doesnt matter what Pique or others say. Not yet. Conversations taking place but NO DEAL YET. Not yet
Guillem Balague (@GuillemBalague) June 4, 2014
Twelve hours later, andit seems that the deal is all but done in light of todays story, with former Arsenal hero Fabregas to take up the mantle thrown down by a Chelsea legend.
30m Argentine Midfielder Confirms Manchester United Interest
Done Deal: Liverpool agree fee to sign Emre Can
Tweet
Pin It
Related Posts
Liverpool Transfer: Reds keen on Benfica winger, latest on Barcelona defender
Liverpool set to complete 40m deal for Sterling replacement?
Barcelona will target Neymar & Vilanova will remain coach
About The Author
tomgatehouse
Based in London, I am a freelance journalist and a real football fanatic.
Predominantly a feature writer, I currently contribute to Football-talk.co.uk, Soccerlens.com and Epltalk.com, as well as maintaining my blog:
goodbadribery.blogspot.co.uk.
I dream of reporting on football in the far flung reaches of the globe. A graduate from the London School of Journalism, I am passionate and determined to bring an impartial view on the game we all love and crave.
33 Comments
Fred Matundura 5 June, 2014
Arsenal fans dont want to read this.
Hola Fabs
You are welcome at Chelsea.
Patrick Kachali @ Kitwe-Zambia 5 June, 2014
Im doubt if Fabregas will manage to play what mourihno want, because team already have Oscar, William
Luka kashiri 5 June, 2014
Gererally people are held by what l call sports emotions and vent our their anger on the coaches or players. All this makes soccer the most beautiful game especially when some of the predictions coming true or untrue. With regards to fair play and sports democracy, the players choice to move to a named club should rule and carry the day
okeke valentine 5 June, 2014
Fab is trik and understand player I want him to be in chelsea team next season up chelsea
Patrick Kachali @ Kitwe-Zambia 5 June, 2014
Okeke, I think at now Willian is better than Fabregas, chelsea team need only 2 top strikers,
Ademola Adejare 5 June, 2014
Nice one! if this went through, it is a very good signing
vorsah bakupe 5 June, 2014
Thats a good replacement for Chelsea .
Rodney 5 June, 2014
Oscar is going then hopefully?
Don vicky 5 June, 2014
Cesc is a gud player,nd will do well for the bluesgud 1 chelsea
L.kashiri @Waterfalls, Harare-Zimbabwe 5 June, 2014
I think Fabregas is a flexible play with a lot of experience and has the ability to adjust to Chelsea play because of his massive experience and exposure. Hoping their old relations will not surface for the good of the game.
femi fakorede 5 June, 2014
u are welcome fabregas
TREVOR 5 June, 2014
Cant see why Chelsea would want Fabregas they have so many quality and younger midfielders currently in the squad and in the youth setup as well.
Joshua .Omo. 5 June, 2014
Cesc u re highly welcum.
2 d bridge
Joshua .Omo. 5 June, 2014
U re highly welcome Cesc
kessy 5 June, 2014
Fab. Ur the replacement of frank lampard. I wished u good luck!!!!!!
austin emmy izuelo 5 June, 2014
I hope that too soon fab will out of favour in chelsea fc why not liverpool instead
Hammed 5 June, 2014
Fab x de man who can replace legendary LAMPARD
mohamed 5 June, 2014
it is normally ok,but chelsea needs atleast two top strikers
Cletus Chonge Nkonde 5 June, 2014
u re highly wlcm fab
Robert 5 June, 2014
Ua welcom fab but da problem of chelsea z not midfielders
but strikers
okeyele 5 June, 2014
I think fab,matic,ramires,hazard nd william wil b cfc starter wen d season commence
Brian mbuka 5 June, 2014
This is some kind of money wasting. He is a good player, but is chelsea lacking midfielders? I even think Diego is enough and we dont need any other signing so far
Patrick Kachali @ Kitwe-Zambia 5 June, 2014
Wow good comment,team already strong but weak up front of goals scorers strikers,why to waste money to signing mid fielder
Pat 6 June, 2014
Brian are you sure you are a Chelsea fans, how many midfielders in M.City and how many in M.United, it seems you are not alright, we are going to play in four different competition next season and you are saying that we dont need to sign another player, i wander the type of person you are, and if Jose did not sign and fail next season you will come out to talk nonsense about you,
Patrick Kachali @ Kitwe-Zambia 5 June, 2014
These type of players always start frustrate in playing if coach substitute or bench him,we must learn to Ozil at arsenal, football these days is for young or new comer players, like liverpool & atletico madrid,because big players always wants to make history for himself,so will see chelsea team next season,
Dave Akogun 5 June, 2014
As for me fab is a good signing bcuz his beter dan mikel nd ramires in dat creative midfield nd i wil love 2 see matic willian nd fabrigas in d midfield next summer.
Patrick Kachali @ Kitwe-Zambia 5 June, 2014
Dave, Fabregas playing position is not at Matic,Mikel or Ramires position as defensive, he always play at Willian position as attacking,so at now are you seen Fabregas is better than Willian?
Abubakari adam 5 June, 2014
If only the spanish midfielder can do the work of our legend frank lampard then no problem
Abubakari adam 5 June, 2014
We need the player
Paul rigo 6 June, 2014
Welcome fab.
Folley Kesselle 6 June, 2014
why cesc want to leave Barca? if he do why can he join Arsenal?
Folley Kesselle 6 June, 2014
Is it certain that cesc will join chelsea?
Olododo Joseph 7 June, 2014
HiEvery One.
I think what we should all be consigned about should be the Managers playing pattern and not the signed players.
Only if mourinho could adopt an attacking and flexible stly of football, which is the better for good Results,and not His defensive Bore minded style. Mourinho needs to to believe in Flexible players like: Oscar,Hazard,Salah,Machomarin,Fabregas and othersto Play Possesive football. Chelsea have Got to INNOVATE their FOOTBALL.
THANK YOU
JOSEPH!
Football News 24/7
CategoriesAC Milan
Arsenal
Arsene Wenger
Aston Villa
Atletico Madrid
Barcelona
Bayern Munich
Blogroll
Bundesliga
Chelsea
Columns
Cristiano Ronaldo
Daily Football Headlines
David Moyes
England
English Premier League
European Championships
Everton
Football Transfers
Football Videos
General Football News
Help Football
Inter Milan
Jose Mourinho
Juventus
La Liga
Ligue 1
Liverpool
Managers
Manchester City
Manchester United
Match Reports
Newcastle United
Paris Saint-Germain
Real Madrid
Roma
Serie A
Sir Alex Ferguson
Site News
Sunderland
Tottenham
UEFA Champions League
Wayne Rooney
West Ham
World Cup
Soccerlens.com Copyright
2016.