Home|
News|
Blogs|
Clubs|
Serie A|
Serie B|
Coppa|
Champs Lge|
Europa|
Azzurri|
Live Scores|
Watch Live|
Tickets|
Videos|
NEWS
Tuesday May 3 2016
Agent: Kondogbia staying at Inter
By Football Italia staff
Geoffrey Kondogbias agent assures his client wont leave Inter - we want to move forward together.
The French midfielder joined the Nerazzurri for 31m from Monaco this summer, after a transfer battle with city rivals Milan.
After initially struggling to adapt to Italian football, the 23-year-old has won plaudits for his performances in recent weeks, and his representative still believes in the Beneamatas project.
Geoffrey is happy at Inter, Jonathan Maarek told FCInterNews.
He has now adjusted to his new life in Italy and also in terms of the football. Hes had his ups and downs during the season, but hes always been one of the best on the pitch and hell definitely be even better next year.
We didnt just sign a one-year contract, but a much longer one, based on a project which we agreed upon when signing.
We still think that this is the best project, and we want to move forward together. We have no intention of questioning the terms we agreed last summer.
The criticism? I personally never like to read peoples opinions about one of my clients. One day they say hes a flop, the next hes top!
Opinions are very changeable, and influenced by performance in a single game, without regard for overall performance.
I know that Geoffrey is a professional, a very serious player who works hard. Opinions dont count for much, what matters is his performance on the pitch.
Kondogbia has five France caps, but has not been included in recent squads by CT Didier Deschamps, does he still think he can go to Euro 2016 on home soil?
The player always thinks about being called-up. Hes been called by Deschamps on several occasions.
The Coach will make the final choices, and well wait until we see the list to see if hes in our out of the squad.
Hes always available to the French national team and hes fighting for his place.
Follow Football Italia on Facebook and Twitter for the latest Italian football chat
Print
Send to a friend
FOOTBALL ITALIA
LATEST NEWS
Serie A Team of Week 36
Agent: Kondogbia staying at Inter
Totti: Well done Ranieri!
ADL: Napoli didnt fail
Strootman: Ill repay on the pitch
FOOTBALL ITALIA RELATED NEWS
Zanetti: Suning investment an honour
Inter four set for exit?
Congratulations for Ranieri's Leicester
Agent: 'Zabaleta to Italy soon'
Handanovic: 'Will I stay at Inter?'
TODAY'S FRONT PAGES
CLUB BY CLUB NEWS
All material on this website is
Tiro Media Ltd 2016. All rights reserved. Republication or redistribution of content is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent. This site is not responsible for the content of external websites | Images courtesy of Action Images / Reuters | Contact us | RSS | Mobile | Developed by Psyberion.
Privacy Policy | Read About How We Use Cookies