Subscribe
Sign In
Register
Home
Subscribe
Buy E-N Merchandise
Contact Us
About Us
Advertise With Us
Subscriber Services
Place a Classified Ad
Privacy Policy
Site Terms of Use
Newsletters & Text Alerts
Find a Business in S.A.
News Archives
Brackenridge junior catcher feels a calling to the military,
Today in S.A. history
Community briefs - Southside Reporter
Holy Cross takes control early to secure 4-4A title
Local
News by Neighborhood
Texas
Obituaries
Traffic
Weather
Lake and River Levels
S.A. History
Guide to San Antonio
San Antonio Charity
Breaking News Video
Classifieds
Freshmans heroics propel Southwest past bi-district round
Sam Houston boys capture Region IV-5A track championship
Brackenridge junior catcher feels a calling to the military,
Today in S.A. history
US & World
Breaking News Anywhere
Border & Mexico
US
World
Health Care
Politics
Military
Track Flights
Strange News
Anti-abortion activist goes to trial over letter to doctor
Teacher sick-outs close most Detroit schools for a 2nd day
10 Things to Know for Today
Funeral will honor 6 of 8 victims in Ohio family shootings
Business
Local
Eagle Ford & Energy
National & International
Automotive News
Top Workplaces in S.A.
Technology
Business Features
Finance Features
Business Careers
Tech Features
Press Releases
From new to old, some of the gun safety features over time
Pioneer Energy Services books a $27.7 million loss, but beats
Appeals court rules against borrowers
The Wonder Woman and other power poses to raise your confidence
Sports
San Antonio Spurs
NBA
NFL
MLB
Soccer
Colleges
College Football
College Basketball
High Schools
High School Football
High School Basketball
Postgame Wrap: No call, but Spurs make no excuses in Game 2 loss
Postgame Wrap: No call, but Spurs make no excuses in Game 2 loss
Wild Spurs finish features botched officials' call, fan grabbing
Golf: Mondays high school results
Food
Restaurants
Food Voted Best in S.A.
Recipes & Cooking
Bars & Drinks
Snacks and Entertaining
Guide to Food in S.A.
Sponsored: Sip, Savor, Celebrate
San Antonio chef to cook at the White House for Cinco de Mayo
A James Beard award for S.A.? Wait until next year
Bohanan's bartender wins Patrn's Margarita of the Year contest
San Antonio chocolatier in final four of Spring Baking Challenge
Entertainment
What S.A. is Watching
Things To Do
Fiesta 2016
Rodeo 2016
Celebrity Buzz
Comics
Puzzles
Horoscope
Movies & TV
Music & Stage
Arts & Culture
Guide to San Antonio
Readers' Choice
Photos at S.A. Parties
Destinations
Ashley Sawyer, Catfish Alum, Dies at 23
Tobin announces theater, dance seasons
SA arts groups prep Big Give programming
13 things (besides the Spurs) to know about in San Antonio this
Lifestyle
Wedding Announcements
Bridal Ideas
Travel & Outdoors
Destinations
Health & Family
Senior Living
Home & Garden
Home Decorating
Trends & Style
Beauty and Fitness Tips
Better Living Tips
Gift Ideas
Pets
Green Living
'Millie the dumpster dog' is healing in foster care, Facebook
12 stylish rental cabins in Texas perfect for summer vacation
Who controls your medical and financial decisions when you're
The Legacy at Longue Vue
Opinion
Editorials
Commentary
Letters to the Editor
Columnists
Third & Ave. E
Editorial Cartoons
Josh Brodesky
Robert Seltzer
O. Ricardo Pimentel
Bruce Davidson
Maria Anglin
Gloria Padilla
Fiorina a smart choice for Cruz
GOP, millenials not seeing eye to eye
Lets look beyond Trump to those in pain
Your Turn: May 3
Cars
Car Tips and Help
News & Reviews
Vehicle Search
Car Features
Latest Car Reviews
VWs Passat sedan gets updated for 2016, bringing styling
Nissan Murano crossover returns for 2016 after getting a complete
Cadillac rolls out the all-new CT6 sedan, and one couple gets
Jobs
Salary Wizard
Top Workplaces
Career Features
Proposed rule would delay questions about criminal history
US consumer spending inches up in March
US economy struggles at start of election year
Homes
Home Search
Apartment Search
Land
Rentals
Open Houses
New Homes Search
Hill Country Living
New Construction
Real Estate Tips
Home Yard Tips
Home DIY
Kitchen, Bed and Bath
Home Decorating
Austin cliff-side mansion with granite bathtub hits market for
The 9 most expensive homes on the market in San Antonio
San Antonio architecture firm Lake | Flato honored again for this
Local developer amasses land along Broadway near The Pearl
Find&Save
MenuSections
http://www.mysanantonio.com/business/fool/article/6-Must-Read-Quotes-from-Microsoft-s-Earnings-Call-7389709.php
6 Must-Read Quotes from Microsoft's Earnings Call
Sam Mattera, The Motley Fool
Published 6:48am, Tuesday, May 3, 2016
Falling demand for Microsoft's Lumia phones weighed on its revenue outlook. Source: Microsoft
Microsoft
shares fell more than 7% last month, following the release of the company'sfiscal third-quarter earnings report. The maker of Windows and Office posted revenue that was roughly in line with analyst estimates, but its earnings and outlook fell short.
In the company's subsequent earnings call, CEO Satya Nadella and CFO Amy Hood touched on several key factors driving Microsoft's business. What follows is six of the most important quotes from that earnings call (via Thomson Reuters).
There are more than 70 million workers using Office 365 on a monthly basis, and 22 million consumers subscribingMicrosoft's commercial cloud services have emerged as a key drive for the company's business. Office 365, the cloud-based alternative to Microsoft's traditional Office software suite, has been growing particularly rapidly in recent quarters. In Microsoft's fiscal first quarter (which ended last September), management noted that there were 60 million workers using Office 365 on a monthly basis. Last quarter, Microsoft said there were 20.6 million consumers subscribed to Office 365. During the earnings call, Nadella provided an update.
"Consumer subscriptions of Office grew to more than 22 million. Devices with our mobile apps grew approximately 4 times year-over-year. Commercial Office 365 customers surpassed 70 million monthly active users, and we grew seats by 57%."
Cybersecurity is benefiting the Office businessMicrosoft offers Office 365 at several different price points. Last year, Microsoft introduced E5, a premium version of Office 365 that included unique security features. During the call, Nadella touched on how the company's interest in cyber security is benefiting its Office business.
"... the cybersecurity market is expanding rapidly, and it's a place where we have unique capabilities like advanced threat protection, cloud app security, and advanced e-discovery. This combination drove a 35% quarter-over-quarter growth of monthly active users of our premium information protection services in Office 365. A key driver of this growth is our new premium Office 365 Suite E5."
Enterprise customers are interested in Windows 10Microsoft's latest operating system, Windows 10, is currently powering more than 270 million machines. But Microsoft's ambitions are far more broad: the company hopes to hit 1 billion Windows 10 users. To get there, Microsoft will have to convince enterprise customers to make the switch. During the call, Nadella quantified enterprise interest in the operating system.
"What we hear most frequently from [enterprise] customers is how much they value the advanced productivity, security, and device management capabilities in Windows 10. In fact this is what led to one of the most security-conscious organizations in the world, the United States Department of Defense, to upgrade all of their PCs and mobile devices to Windows 10 this year. We see this trend across our enterprise customers, with 83% of them in active pilots to date."
On that disappointing guidanceMicrosoft's revenue guidance came in a little weaker than some analysts had anticipated. Management was asked to provide more color about the factors that have accounted for that disappointment. Hood cited weak sales of Microsoft's traditional software products (including Office), poor Lumia sales, and some weakness in particular geographies.
"It's really, as we've talked about, transactional weakness in productivity and business process ... it's the PC weakness, and our traditional transactional Office business that's impacting that segment ... In intelligent cloud, it's a very similar dynamic ... it's the transactional weakness that you're seeing overall, as well some ... geo weakness [in Latin America, the Middle East and Africa] ... And in More Personal Computing, the largest of change in that segment is frankly the phone."
Opening Office up to developersOffice is ubiquitous, but Microsoft believes it can strengthen it even further by allowing developers to take advantage of the data it often contains. Early in the call, Nadella cited the example of Starbucks giving a customer the ability to send the gift of a cup of coffee over email. Later, he added additional color on how the company views the larger opportunity Office development presents.
"The other thing that I'm also excited about, when it comes to Office 365, is for the first time we're opening up Office 365. Not just as an end-user, and [an] enterprise tool and a service, but as a developer platform. In its own right, we think of Office as perhaps one of the most strategic developer assets we have, and with the Microsoft Graph API, and what we see as activity around it. We think about the platform effects of that, as also being very key."
Taking on Amazon Web ServicesIn addition to Office 365, Microsoft offers several other major enterprise cloud services. One of the most important is Azure, Microsoft's cloud computing solution. Azure faces several different competitors, but the most fearsome may be Amazon
Web Services (AWS). AWS has enjoyed impressive growth in recent years, and generated nearly $9 billion in sales over the past 12 months. Meanwhile, it's profitable: it posted adjusted operating income of $604 million last quarter.
During the call, Microsoft was asked about AWS and how it compares to Azure. Nadella offered up what he believes are Azure's key advantages over Amazon's offering: A better solution for firms that want a hybrid solution that blends their own servers with Microsoft's cloud.
"... where our differentiation lies? The first one is hybrid. Most people think about hybrid where, they think about the cloud as the edge of their server. We obviously support that with all of our service. Every server product of ours, has cloud enrollment rights, whether it be SQL, whether it be Windows server, and you'll see that increasingly, even in this next wave of servers ... But we also think of, in fact, our servers as the edge of our cloud. That I think is where the world is going to go to, where distributed computing will remain distributors. So Azure Stack is completely unique to Microsoft. No one else who is in the public cloud business at any scale, has that kind of capability. So, I would say that's another point of differentiation."
A secret billion-dollar stock opportunity The world's biggest tech company forgot to show you something, but a few Wall Street analysts and the Fool didn't miss a beat: There's a small company that's powering their brand-new gadgets and the coming revolution in technology. And we think its stock price has nearly unlimited room to run for early in-the-know investors! To be one of them, just click here.
The article 6 Must-Read Quotes from Microsoft's Earnings Call originally appeared on Fool.com.
Sam Mattera has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool owns shares of and recommends Amazon.com and Starbucks. The Motley Fool owns shares of Microsoft. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.Copyright
1995 - 2016 The Motley Fool, LLC.
All rights reserved. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Latest Business News
Does This Upstart Pose a Threat to GlaxoSmithKline?
Better Buy Now: Nike, Under Armour, or Lululemon?
The Weak Oil Market Continues to Batter MRC Global Inc.'s...
Airline Earnings Look Great on Paper, Thanks to Oil
Forget Bluebird Bio, Inc.: These 3 Stocks Are Better Buys
Why Twitter Inc. Stock Dropped 11.7% in April
1 Fast-Growing Energy Dividend Stock Not Being Hurt by Oil...
6 Must-Read Quotes from Microsoft's Earnings Call
Warm Weather Continues to Cool Off UGI Corp.'s Earnings
Value Investing in Spring: 3 Stocks to Put on Your Radar in May
Ready for Medicare? Not Until You Read This
For Interactive Intelligence, the Future Gets Cloudier
4 Things You May Be Surprised to Learn Costco Sells
This is Why 2015 Was So Great for NVIDIA Stock
Apple Watch: A First-Year Win, but What About the Long Term?
Business Videos
Stay Connected
Most Popular
1
Sheriff: California mother connected to 'horrific' child abuse...
2
Sheriff: 8 children rescued, woman arrested after 'horrific'...
3
Thank you for subscribing
4
Texas teen ejected from carnival ride to her death at El Paso...
5
These were the 30 highest paying jobs in the San Antonio area...
6
Young fan traveled 3 hours to meet the San Antonio Spurs for...
7
Warrant: Slain pregnant Texas teen found with uterus removed
View Comments
2016 Hearst Communications, Inc.
Logo
Return to Top
About
Corporate Home
Careers
Advertising
Ad Choices
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights
Contact
FAQ
Newsroom Contacts
Purchase Photos
Place a Classified Ad
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Instagram
Subscribe
San Antonio Express-News
ExpressNews.com
iPad app
eEdition
Search Our News Archive
Manage Your Subscription
Hearst Newspapers
Copyright Hearst Newspapers, LLC