Email
Password
Remember meForgotpassword?
Log in with Facebook
Log in with Twitter
Follow Digital Journal
Digital Journal
Log In
10
must read articles
news
B2B News
technology
science
video
internet
a&e
life
sports
business
TRENDING
US
| riotinto
| Nauru
| gem
| montreal canadiens rumors
| raqa
| antiinflammatory drug
| updated nba mock draft
| gm food
| PR
|
More press releases
Press Release
Regev Group Joins DFPG Investments, Inc.
(PRLeap.com) SALT LAKE CITY, Utah - April 30, 2016 - DFPG Investments, Inc. (DFPG: www.dfpg.com), a national independent broker-dealer and RIA, announced Friday that Nir Regev with Regev Group, which is based in Missouri, has joined their firm.
"We are very pleased that Nir identified the fit with our firm," says DFPG's CEO, Mike Bendix.
"Nir brings a lot of value to DFPG, not the least of which is his stellar reputation and respect from so many industry peers and partners."
Commenting on the transition to DFPG, Nir Regev stated that, "Part of the draw to DFPG was the established expertise they provide relating to alternative products, which I consider important to my practice.
But the tipping point for me was DFPG's people.
I recognized very quickly that this was a firm that would align well with many of the intangibles that are important to me in the rep/BD relationship."
In addition to acting as DFPG's CEO, Bendix is also currently the president of the Alternatives & Direct Investment Securities Association (ADISA: www.adisa.org), which is the nation's largest alternatives investments association.
"Our industry has experienced a lot of angst and shifts in recent months," says Bendix.
"Whether at the regulatory level or the advisor level, things are changing and people are looking for solutions."
The DI Wire [link to article] recently interviewed Bendix about his rare industry perspective.
Bendix is a producing rep, the owner of a dually registered broker dealer, and the president of a national association.
Bendix adds, "Despite everything that is happening, DFPG holds strong to the position that some things will never change.
We believe that financial advisors and investment advisors will always want access to best-in-class and unique product offerings, and they will always seek culture and values with which they can align.
At DFPG, we have chosen to compete on the basis of these two core ideals."
DFPG Investments, Inc. is a national, full-service, independent broker-dealer and registered investment advisor that specializes in working with representatives who want to incorporate alternative investments, with an emphasis in investment real estate, in their business. More information about DFPG, including media inquiries, can be directed to Nick Hansen (nhansen@dfpg.com).
GET IN TOUCH
Nick Hansen
DFPG Investments, Inc.
801-838-9999
http://www.dfpg.com
You can see the original version and more on PRLeap here: http://www.prleap.com/pr/245763/regev-group-joins-dfpg-investments-inc-
Latest News
Top News
Air raids on IS Syria bastion kill 13 civilians: Monitor
2016 NBA Mock Draft: Phoenix Suns set for big summer
Ruby Friedman ventures into new territory with her first LPSpecial
NBA Rumors: Hassan Whiteside to Chicago Bulls?
Wynonna Earp's Michael Eklund on conjuring Bobo Del ReySpecial
NHL Trade Rumors: P.K. Subban to Edmonton Oilers?
McCartney, the Stones, Dylan, the Who 'confirm' mega concert
Interview: Actress Tracey Birdsall talks new film 'Who's Jenna'Special
Child welfare or 'state kidnapping'? Foreign parents face anguish in Norway
Op-Ed: Leaked TTIP documents confirm fears of many critics
Toddler rescued 4 days after Kenya building collapse
Bangkok orgy and racist sex tape that changed the Foxes' fortunes
Ruthie Collins talks Stagecoach performance, plans for 2016Special
Trump eyes knockout blow against Cruz in Indiana
Philippine presidential favourite causing market jitters
Mark Selby wins world snooker championshipSpecial
Corporate
Contact Us
About Us
Jobs
Media Center
Advertise
Leaderboard & Achievements
Investors & Partners
Board of Advisers
Help & Support
Help Center
Frequently Asked Questions
Editorial Guidelines
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Code of Conduct
News Links
Latest News
Live Events
News Alerts
Digital Journal Mobile
GlobeNewswire News
Global Press Releases
24-7PressRelease.com
copyright
2016 digitaljournal.com
|
powered by dell servers