+1-518-618-1030
866 - 552 - 3453
USA-Canada Toll Free
Menu
Research Categories
Medical Devices
Technology & Media
Chemical & Materials
Pharmaceutical
Food & Beverages
Energy & Mining
Consumer Goods
Semiconductor & Electronics
Biotechnology
Healthcare IT
Metals & Minerals
Defense & Aeronautics
Packaging
View All Categories
Blog
Articles
Press Releases
About Us
Services
Syndicated Research
Custom Research
Consulting Services
Contact Us
Making Critical Decisions. Effortless.
Advance Search
Home
Articles
Europeans Beginning to Prefer Insect Repellent Creams and Oils over Mats and Coils
Europeans Beginning to Prefer Insect Repellent Creams and Oils over Mats and Coils
Posted on May 03, 2016
For reasons as many as there may be, the number of cases of insect-borne diseases in Europe is on the rise. The easiest way to tackle this problem for the majority of citizens is to use insect repellents. The situation is made clearer by the CDC, which had stated earlier that the climate changes are causing a growth in insect numbers across the world. This applies especially to the tiger mosquitoes of Northern Europe as this place will get wetter as the temperature rises. To combat the rise in mosquito numbers, consumers are left with no choice but to increase the number of insect-repellents they purchase.
The Europe insect repellent market is expected to progress at a CAGR of 3.0% between 2015 and 2023. This market was recorded at US$1.4 bn in 2014 and owing to the factors mentioned above, can grow to US$1.82 bn before the end of 2023. The key players expected to benefit significantly from this growth phase include Omega Pharma, BASF S.E., E.I. DuPont de Nemours and Company, 3M Corporation, S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc., and Avon Products Inc.
Europe Insect Repellent Market Boosted by Rising Awareness and Growing Prevalence of Related Diseases
A key driver of the Europe insect repellent market is the existence of a strong and wide distribution channel for most top players in the market, coupled with a growing rate of alarm and precaution against insect-borne diseases. More consumers are turning towards insect-repellent products amidst a steadily growing rate of mosquito-borne or -transmitted illnesses and weather changes. This market could, however, be slightly hindered by the increasingly stringent government regulations regarding the use of several chemicals in insect repellent products.
Consumers in Europe Buying All Types of Insect Repellents
In terms of types, the Europe insect repellent market is segmented into body worn and non-body worn repellents. Of these, the market has mostly been dominated by non-body worn insect repellents. This is attributed to several factors, including immediate care from major insect-borne diseases such as malaria, Lyme disease, and dengue; lower overall costs as compared to body worn repellants; and easier usage. Most non-body worn repellants can just be ignited or heated up through a device that comes with the repellant.
However, these repellants only provide protection within a small area, stepping out of which subjects the consumer to insect-related threats once again. In comparison, body worn insect repellants can form a shield around the user wherever they go, allowing them to be mobile and still be protected. At the same time, body worn insect repellants are becoming more appealing by making use of natural ingredients such as eucalyptus and citronella oils. Most of these ingredients are completely natural and have little to no side-effects on users, including children. As a result, consumers are beginning to prefer body worn insect repellants more, especially for use on people who spend more time outdoors, such as children.
Nearly 96% of the Europe insect repellent market was occupied by non-body worn insect repellants in 2014. While this almost absolute lead is expected to keep this segment ahead in the market for a while longer, a larger percentage of consumers are looking towards body worn repellants in addition to non-body worn ones to ensure complete protection.
Browse FullGlobal Cleanroom Consumables MarketResearch ReportWith Complete TOC @http://www.transparencymarketresearch.com/europe-insect-repellent-market.html
Related Report
Pneumatic Tire Market - Global Industry Analysis, Size, Share, Growth, Trends and Forecast 2016 - 2024
Global Pneumatic Tire Market: Overview
The global market for pneumatic tires is expected to surge exponentially between 2016 and 2024 due to the rising demand from the automotive industry. The market is anticipated to expand significantly owing to the increasing vehicle p...
Luxury Furniture Market - Global Industry Analysis, Size, Share, Growth, Trends, and Forecast 2016 - 2024
Global Luxury Furniture Market: Overview
Luxury furniture consists of furniture made from high-quality materials and reputed manufacturing processes. Unlike other highly prized items, luxury items such as luxury furniture may rely on traditional manufacturing processes ra...
Cosmetics Market - Global Industry Analysis, Size, Share, Growth, Trends and Forecast 2016 - 2023
Global Cosmetics Market: Overview
Cosmetics are products used to enhance various aspects of an individuals appearance. Hair care, skin care, and deodorants are some of the most popular types of cosmetics available in the global market. The global cosmetics market h...
About Us
Career
Methodology
How to order
Delivery Method
FAQs
Research Categories
Latest
Upcoming
Services
Conferences
Sitemap
Return Policy
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Terms & Conditions
Contact Us
Connect Us
Twitter
Follow TMR's Twitter feed for the latest market developments and analysis
Facebook
Like TMR's page for updates on published and upcoming market research reports
LinkedIn
Gain access to TMR's expert insights and thought leadership posts
Google+
Follow TMR for the latest updates from our research experts
Copyright
Transparency Market Research. All Rights Reserved
Advance Search
Search For :
Report Type :
All
Upcoming
Published
Category :
Select A Category
Pharmaceutical
Chemical & Materials
Energy & Mining
Food & Beverages
Semiconductor & Electronics
Medical Devices
Consumer Goods
Technology & Media
Biotechnology
Healthcare IT
Metals and Minerals
Defense and Aeronautics