Skip to Content
Skip to Main Navigation
Skip to Information Links
Skip to Site Search
Skip to Footer
Skip to Accessibility Information
Home Page
Information Links
Sign in
Register
Bulletins
Advertise
Subscribe
Third SectorMainNet
Main Navigation
Search
Home
Jobs
News
Views
Knowledge
FR Week
Fundraising
Finance
Digital
Governance
Communications
Management
Policy
Big Stories
Email Bulletins
RSS Newsfeeds
Star Supporters
Good Practice
Webcasts
Surveys
Expert Reports
Research
Expert Hub
Careers
Fundraising Week 2016
Awards
Charities of convenience: causing confusion and a pickle for the sector
03 May 2016
by Matthew Sherrington,
Be the First to Comment
Perception is all-important for the sector when the essence of charities and their independence come under scrutiny, writes Matthew Sherrington
When is a charity a charity, and when is it not? A peculiar question, perhaps, given the charity sector is a big and inclusive tent. But in these days where perception counts as reality, perhaps its a fair question, and the answer is when the public wouldn't think of it as one.
That breadth and diversity is something to celebrate. But it also means generalisations are generally meaningless, and yet get used to beat up the sector when it suits its detractors. Because quite a number of organisations that are charities wouldnt be recognisable as such by the public. And they dont necessarily think of themselves that way either.
Take Tate, which last week refused to contribute to the new Fundraising Regulator. Reasonably, they argued, they dont raise money from the public through means being regulated. More interestingly, they said: "Tateis an executive non-departmental public body sponsored by the Department for Culture, Media and Sport". Charity doesnt feature high in how they see themselves.
Charity status is by and large granted for meeting public benefit requirements, but sought for tax breaks and access to charitable and other grants. And so we have private hospitals and schools, housing associations, arts organisations, quangos, foundations and professional institutes that, while they might run as non-profits for greater or lesser public benefit, dont generally raise money from the public, who may not know of them, and are unlikely to think of them as charities. Not like they would a cancer charity, animals charity, or childrens charity.
This matters when charities at large get skewered on executive pay, for example. The impression high salaries give is of CEOs running charities as businesses in their own self-interest. Galling perhaps, given the experience and dedication of most, but there you have it. And skewered they have been. On BBC Radio 4s Moral Maze a few weeks ago, Michael Portillo got away unchallenged with his assertions about quarter-million-pound salaries". Just30 charity CEO salaries are over 250k, and of those, only two would be recognisable by the public as 'charity' charities, relying on the generous publics donations.
Last week I was approached by a charity for advice in accessing global foundation money. I use the word loosely now, because they were already a multi-million-pound private company that became a charity just last year with the express purpose of accessing foundation funds. NCVO in its latest Almanac on the state of the sector ascribes some of the sectors income growth to the charitisation of former public bodies, such as Canals and Rivers Trust and English Heritage. This is perhaps just one step on from the high volume outsourcing of services by government to charities over the last 15 years, bringing with it some of the service delivery culture that has distanced charity leadership from appreciating public supporters and worrying about what they think.
And so you get the Chair of a housing association shrugging it happens'as he evicts tenants in order to make a quick buck, before being seen off by Stella Creasy. Profit before people, never a good look for a charity. And the hybrid charity/company Which? paying executives up to 800,000, which in the commercial world might have some logic, but doesnt sit well wearing a charity hat as well.
This matters when the core values of charities are called into question, as they have been when fundraising practices, commercial deals and salaries dont fit the public perception of what a charity should be up to. It matters, when the growth of service delivery by charities through government contracts challenges the essential identity of what being a charity means. Why should sub-contractors be able to criticise us, say the government. That essence of charity identity, independence, is further undermined, as the recent Civil Exchange report "Independence in Question" warns.
And independence matters, when the government is curtailing the right of charities to speak out and campaign, and when health charities explore the benefits of working together with the NHS to deliver services more effectively, as recently published by New Philanthropy Capital. Without question, these charities are driven by the right motivations of improving patient outcomes, but will the government see more than the money they might bring? Im sure they know to tread carefully.
Values, independence, and identity. Charities of convenience become see-through by these measures of public perception. But the light has to shine on them in the first place for distinctions to be appreciated. Otherwise, the fact that they dont have to worry about public opinion and support risks their damaging the sector at large.The sector needs to work on the values that hold it together, but there are some big cultural fault lines that need attention.
Matthew Sherrington is a charity leadership and communications consultant at Inspiring Action. @m_sherrington
Share this article
Tweet
More on this Topic
Comment: The public's love/hate for big charities and the danger of complacency
Will charities submit to being muzzled, as is expected of them?
Charities need to step up in 2016 - and step back
The Fundraising Preference Service and the throttling of big society
Matthew Sherrington: Who is responsible for a charity's reserves?
Before commenting please read our rules for commenting on articles.
If you see a comment you find offensive, you can flag it as inappropriate. In the top right-hand corner of an individual comment, you will see 'flag as inappropriate'. Clicking this prompts us to review the comment. For further information see our rules for commenting on articles.
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus
Follow us on:
Latest Jobs
Public Affairs & PR Manager
Royal British Legion Industries
Aylesford, Kent
Caseworker
Manchester Action on Street Health
Manchester, Greater Manchester
Senior Community Fundraising Manager
The Childrens Trust
Tadworth, Surrey
Corporate Fundraising Manager
Royal British Legion Industries
Aylesford, Kent with UK wide travel
Communications Manager
Polly Symondson Recruitment Ltd
Bristol (City Centre), City of Bristol
Search more jobs
Send me jobs by email
Third Sector Insight
Sponsored webcasts, surveys and expert reports from Third Sector partners
Charity trustees & risk management - planning for the unforeseen
Todays charity leaders have a lot...
Report: How do charities gain the support of major donors?
In austere times with continued government...
Choosing an online fundraising platform
This report reveals insights from a survey...
More Third Sector Insight
Expert Hub
Insurance advice from Markel
Video: Importance of watertight abuse cover
Recent abuse claims highlight the need for care organisations to have robust abuse cover, as this video from Markel shows
Help & Information
About Third Sector
Contact Us
Advertiser Information
Terms & Conditions
Privacy
Cookie Policy
Accessibility
FAQ
Editorial Complaint?
Subscription & Registration
Subscribe to Third Sector
Register
Free Trial
Subscriber web account activation
Acevo member registration
Third Sector App
News
News & Analysis
Big Stories
Star Supporters
Email Bulletins
RSS Newsfeeds
Channels
Fundraising
Finance
Digital
Governance
Management
Communications
Policy & Politics
Volunteering
Social Enterprise
Local Action
Good Practice
Knowledge
Fundraising Good Practice
Finance Good Practice
Governance Good Practice
Communications Good Practice
Management Good Practice
Expert Hub
Site Sections
Careers
Classified Advertising
Events
Awards
Partner Sites
Third Sector Research
Third Sector Jobs
Third Sector Volunteering
Business Charity Awards
Third Sector Awards
Haymarket Media Group Ltd. | Terms & Conditions