Jump to main navigationJump to main content
News Search
News
by eluta.ca
Search Jobs at eluta.ca
Jobs
Login
Register
18
Toronto
Subscribe
Help
AdChoices
Home
News
Opinion
Business
Investing
Sports
Life
Arts
Tech
Drive
Real Estate
National
Politics
British Columbia
Alberta
Toronto
World
Video
Politics Insider
Elections
Home
News
Politics
John Manley, in a June 10, 2013, file photo, listens during the International Economic Forum Of The Americas' Conference Of Montreal. (David Vilder/Bloomberg)
John Manley, in a June 10, 2013, file photo, listens during the International Economic Forum Of The Americas' Conference Of Montreal.(David Vilder/Bloomberg)
Politics
Liberals get leadership lecture from high-powered ex-politicians
Add to ...
Murray Brewster
OTTAWAThe Canadian Press
Published
Tuesday, May 03, 2016 8:00AM EDT
Last updated
Tuesday, May 03, 2016 8:02AM EDT
Comments
AA
They were there to talk about foreign policy and defence, but three former political heavyweights ended up giving the Trudeau government some unsolicited advice on leadership and trade issues.John Manley, a Liberal former deputy prime minister, Jean Charest, the ex-Liberal premier of Quebec, and Bob Rae, a former NDP premier and interim federal Liberal leader, spoke in front of a high-power audience at a Canadian Global Affairs Institute symposium late Monday.
Members of the Liberal governments defence review advisory panel were there taking notes along side the diplomatic community, top military brass and the defence industry representatives.Manley and Charest both warned about the urgency of completing trade deals started by the Harper government, including the European free trade agreement.They also said Canada needs to develop a Plan B if the Trans-Pacfiic Partnership agreement is rejected by the U.S. Congress.At the same time, each of the former politicians talked in turn about the necessity of public policy consultation, but warned it shouldnt be open-ended, nor used as an excuse for doing nothing.The Trudeau government is in the extraordinary position of being more popular than when it was elected, and it should take advantage of that good will to make decisions that are difficult, said Rae and Manley.Reviews are fine, (but) I hate them, said Manley. Ive always thought they are a method of delay and you can have consultation constipation and just not get to actually governing.The blunt assessment comes as the Liberals hold a cross-Canada examination of the countrys defence policy, the first time in two decades the public has been asked for input on the role the military should play in the federal governments foreign policy framework. But it is also hosting a myriad of other reviews with the stated aim of making government more open and accessible.Some of the current popularity is based on the fact that it has yet to make uncomfortable, unpopular decisions, said Manley.The government has thoroughly mastered yes. They are really good at (saying) yes, but governing is to choose and eventually youve got to say no to somebody, he said. Not everyone is going to approve of everything you do.Manley also said, when it comes to defence spending there has to be trust between those in uniform and the politicians who sign the cheques
something that is occasionally in short supply.At the moment, Canada spends about one per cent of its gross domestic product on the military
about half the NATO standard
and has repeatedly faced calls from allies to increase the amount.The debate over the adequate level of defence spending should be subordinate to explaining how they are going to spend the money and what effect they hope to achieve, the panelists said.Our defence situation is pitiful, especially if we compare ourselves to the rest of the world, said Charest, who also warned that Canada could face increased pressure in the future because the shifting geo-political landscape.I think its inevitable were going to have to spend more and Canadians are going to have to be persuaded by their leaders that thats a good thing to do, said Manley.The possible election of Donald Trump as U.S. president, with his remarks about freeloading allies and anti-free trade rhetoric, would send shock waves through the Canada-U.S. relationship, Rae said.I pray to God it doesnt happen, he said.
Also on The Globe and Mail
Justin Trudeau fires back at critics over pipelines (CP Video)
More Related to this Story
Vocal in opposition, Liberals turn quiet on fate of jailed Saudi blogger
Trudeaus representative in Senate to name deputy, whip
MPs debate late into night to pass assisted dying bill before June deadline
Comments
AA
Next Story
Threats force five-year-old Messi fan out of Afghanistan
Tuesday, May. 03, 2016 8:21AM EDT
Tearful Pierre Karl Pladeau steps down as Parti Qubcois leader
Monday, May. 02, 2016 8:34PM EDT
Remains of Captain Cooks ship likely off Rhode Island coast
Tuesday, May. 03, 2016 8:11AM EDT
In the know
Report on Business
The builder: How BCEs CEO George Cope cuts a deal
Life
A rich, grownup breakfast for Mother's Day
Life
The secret to eating a healthy, satisfying breakfast
ROB magazine
How Fairfaxs Prem Watsa prepares for market meltdowns
Athletics
Prince Harry and PM Trudeau start InvictusGames countdown inToronto
Most popular videos
Life
Obama embraces retirement in spoof video
Report on Business
Where can I buy expensive clothing on the cheap?
News
Fiorina takes tumble during Cruz campaign event
Report on Business
'It's dream crushing': University of Ottawa law student on being $150,000 in debt
Report on Business
First U.S. cruise ship in 50 years arrives in Havana
News
Controversial pop-up toilets proposed to fix this Australian city's pee problem
Life
The secret to eating a healthy, satisfying breakfast
News
Tearful Pierre Karl Pladeau steps down as Parti Qubcois leader
News
Trudeau tells story of his grandfather at Invictus Games launch
News
Clinton slams Trump's 'birther' movement against Obama
News
Personal chef: Prince fought sore throats, stomach pains
News
Britain's Prince Harry recruits Queen, Obamas for promo video
Highlights
Report on Business
In Hamilton, a Depression-era garden reblooms
Report on Business
PEI innovator shares her reading passion with others
More from The Globe and Mail
Globe Investor
Millennial breaks payday loan cycle: It was a struggle, Im not going to lie.
Life
Lives Lived: Helen Bernadette Hauk, 98
Most popular
May 3: Your daily horoscope
Snowbirds and travellers: If you need to buy U.S. dollars, nows the time
Seat class divide strongest predictor of air rage: study
Ontario urged to make doctors compensation public
Pladeau steps down as PQ leader, citing family concerns
connect with us
Products
The Globe and Mail Newspaper
Newspaper delivered to your doorstep.
Subscribe to the newspaper
Globe Unlimited
Digital all access pass across devices.
Subscribe to Globe Unlimited
Globe2Go
The digital replica of our newspaper.
Subscribe to Globe2Go
Globe Email Newsletters
Get top Globe stories sent to your inbox.
Subscribe to email newsletters
Globe eBooks
A collection of articles by the Globe.
View the library
Advertise with us
GlobeLink.ca
Your number one partner for reaching Canada's Influential Achievers.
Or go directly to:
Newspaper
Magazine
Digital
Globe Alliance: extend your reach
Globe Edge: custom content
Classifieds
The Globe at your Workplace
Globe Corporate Sales
Globe Unlimited digital edition and Globe2Go e-paper group discounts available.
Learn more
Corporate financial data and content licensing for your organization.
Learn more
Or go directly to:
Report On Business Top 1000
DataStore essential business intelligence
Our Company
About us
Work at The Globe
Staff
Secure Services
Secure Drop
Staff PGP Directory
Customer Service
Contact Us
Customer Preference Center
FAQs
Customer Care website
Digital subscription services
Print subscription services
Change your delivery address
Vacation Stops
Globe Recognition
Special Globe events and offers for subscribers
Mobile Apps
News
NEWS APP
Available for download on the following devices
iPhone
iPad
Android
Blackberry
Other Sections
Appointments
Art Store
Births & Announcements
Corrections
Classifieds
Classroom Edition
Deaths
Newspaper Ads
Real Estate
Special Reports
Site Map
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Disclaimer
Accessibility Policy
Community Guidelines
Globe sustainability
Editorial Code of Conduct
Copyright 2016 The Globe and Mail Inc. All Rights Reserved.
444 FrontSt.W.,
Toronto,
ON
Canada
M5V 2S9
Phillip Crawley, Publisher
Add to Watchlist
Add to Watchlist
We've run into a glitch. Please try again later.
We've run into a glitch. Please try again later.
x
Customize your reading font
XS
S
M
L
XL
The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog
The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog
The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog
The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog
The quick brown fox jumps over the lazy dog