
Webroot Announces Integration with Citrix to Enhance Scalability and Security for Enterprise Customers Worldwide.

BROOMFIELD, Colo., May 3, 2016 /PRNewswire/ --Webroot, the market leader in real-time, cloud-based collective threat intelligence and next-generation endpoint security, today announced an integration with Citrix, a leader in the application delivery controller (ADC) market. Citrix will complement its powerful NetScaler ADC platform with the highly-accurate Webroot BrightCloud IP Reputation Service to help users uncover malicious IP addresses within their IT infrastructure to deliver highly accurate and actionable threat intelligence to enterprises.
According to the Webroot 2016 Threat Brief, over 100,000 previously benign IP addresses are reclassified to malicious every day. This reinforces the importance of using real-time IP threat intelligence to effectively detect, alert on and block malicious IPs. With its dynamic list of known malicious IP addresses, which contains approximately 12 million IPs at any given time, the BrightCloud IP Reputation Service enables enterprises to correlate network traffic with highly-accurate, real-time IP reputation data in their NetScaler Application Delivery Controller environment. The integration also enhances application performance and availability and develops stronger context-based security.
"Citrix chose to integrate the Webroot BrightCloud IP Reputation Service into the NetScaler Application Delivery Controller platform to offer our customers the ability to increase capacity on demand," said Marissa Schmidt, director of product management at Citrix. "The addition of the next-generation threat intelligence provided through Webroot adds yet another layer of deense against cyberattacks, enhancing both scalability and security."
The integration of IP reputation intelligence into the NetScaler platform will allow Citrix customers to correlate IP data with URL, file, and mobile applications up to six degrees of separation to determine relationships among and between internet objects. This unique perspective enables BrightCloud Threat Intelligence Services to alert Citrix users of suspicious activities as they happen and provides detailed contextual information on each malicious IP so incident response teams can quickly investigate threats before they lead to costly data theft.
"In an attempt to fool security defenses, attackers change hosts and IP addressesmultiple times a day. As a result, enterprises struggle to determine which IP addressesareactivethreats to their organization," said Darren Niller, senior director of worldwide alliances at Webroot. "Powered bythe BrightCloud IP Reputation Service,enterprises using NetScaler can augment their existing security response solution with thecloud-based Webroot Threat Intelligence Platform to quickly identify and block potentially dangerous IP traffic, minimizing the opportunity for attackers."
About Webroot Webroot delivers next-generation endpoint security and threat intelligence services to protect businesses and individuals around the globe. Our smarter approach harnesses the power of cloud-based collective threat intelligence derived from millions of real-world devices to stop threats in real time and help secure the connected world. Our award-winning SecureAnywhere endpoint solutions and BrightCloud Threat Intelligence Services protect tens of millions of devices across businesses, home users, and the Internet of Things. Trusted and integrated by market-leading companies, including Cisco, Citrix, Aruba, Palo Alto Networks, A10 Networks, and more, Webroot is headquartered in Colorado and operates globally across North America, Europe, and Asia. Discover Smarter Cybersecurity solutions at www.webroot.com.


