Hot Topics:
ETFs |
Retirement |
Currencies |
Online Broker Center
Our Company
Tech
Differentiate With Technology
Trade
Trade Multiple Asset Classes
Track
Track the Markets
Intel
Leverage Actionable Intelligence
List
Access Capital
Listing Center
Discover
Discover Nasdaq
2015 CNBC Disruptor 50
Learn more about the CNBC Disruptor 50
Quotes
Quotes
Quotes & Research
Flash Quotes
InfoQuotes
Summary Quotes
Real-time Quotes
Extended Trading
Options Trading Center
Historical Quotes
Charts
Basic Charts
Interactive Charts
Companies
Company News
Press Releases
Market Stream
Company List
Nasdaq Companies
Stock Analysis
Analyst Research
Guru Analysis
Stock Reports
Competitors
Fundamentals
Financials
Revenue/EPS
SEC Filings
Short Interest
Dividend History
Holdings
Ownership Summary
Institutional Holdings
Insiders Form 4
Markets
Extended Hours
Pre-Market Activity
After Hours Activity
Stocks
Most Active
Unusual Volume
52 Week High/Low
Upcoming Splits
New SEC Filings
IPO Summary
Earnings Calendar
Dividend Stocks
Sector Analysis
Commodities
Gold
Oil
Analyst Activity
Upgrades/Downgrades
Forecast Changes
Earning Surprises
Indices
Major Stock Indices
Market Sector Indices
Statistical Milestones
Global Markets
News
Company News
Market Headlines
Market Stream
Economic Calendar
Business Video
Technology News
Featured Article
Can Oil Continue To Rally?
An Interview with the IEA's Neil Atkinson
Investing
How to Invest
Investing Basics
Broker Comparison
Glossary
Stocks
Mutual Funds
Investing Tools
Stock Screener
Guru Screener
Financial Advisor Center
Advanced Investing
ETFs
Forex
Forex Broker Comparison
Wealth Management
Options
Bonds
Personal Finance
Retirement
Real Estate
Banking
Insurance
Saving Money
Taxes
Investments
Small Business
Featured Article
9 Easy Ways to Teach Your Child to Save Money
Give your kids the knowledge they need
My Nasdaq
My Portfolio
Stock Ratings
Settings
My Account
Edit Profile
Connnections
Profile Photo
Customize Your
Experience
Join the NASDAQ Community today and get free, instant access to portfolios, stock ratings, real-time alerts, and more!
Join Today
Already a member?
Login
Search
See headlines for BCYP
View Print Version
More from GlobeNewswire
Blue Calypso Engages MZ Group to Lead New Strategic Investor Relations Program
Blue Calypso to Host First Quarter 2016 Conference Call on Wednesday, May 11, 2016 at 4:30 p.m. ET
Blue Calypso Receives Strategic Investment from Loyalty Program Innovator Hal Brierley
Blue Calypso Engages MZ Group to Lead New Strategic Investor Relations Program
By GlobeNewswire, May 03, 2016, 08:31:00 AM EDT
Vote up
A
A
A
Emerging Provider of Location-Enabled, Mobile Consumer Engagement Solutions at Inflection Point with Recent Patent Award in Gamification IP Family and New Capital Infusion from Strategic Investor
DALLAS, May
03, 2016
(GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Blue Calypso, Inc. (OTCQB:BCYP), an innovator of mobile consumer activation, engagement and social advocacy solutions for manufacturers and brick-and-mortar retailers, has engaged international IR specialists MZ Group to lead a new strategic investor relations and financial communications program in key global markets.
Blue Calypso welcomes its partnership with MZ Group, the largest independent IR firm in the world. Over the course of the next several weeks, MZ Group will work closely with Blue Calypso management to develop and execute a comprehensive capital markets strategy designed to increase the company's visibility amongst investors in the United States. This structured campaign will be augmented by Blue Calypso's recent business success, patent family expansion and upcoming high-profile partnerships with leading international brands, retailers and tier-one technology companies.
Since 2009, Blue Calypso has been an innovator and pioneer in the development and delivery of location-enabled mobile engagement solutions that bridge the relationship gap that commonly exists between brands, retailers and consumers. Their leading solutions: KIOSentrix, POPTrak & DashTAGG elevate the consumer shopping experience through an engaging in-store mobile immersion, while capturing real-time shopper behavioral analytics for retailers and brands on their patented cloud-based platform. With a $29 billion-dollar market opportunity in mobile shopping, a 20% CAGR on revenue growth in social gaming and a strong IP portfolio, Blue Calypso is positioned squarely to capitalize on the future of mobile engagement. MZ is the next evolution for institutional investor awareness.
MZ has six offices across North America and a strong presence in Asia with offices in Taipei and Hong Kong. Additionally, the company has extensive industry relationships with investors throughout Europe including key financial hubs in the UK and Germany.
With their stringent client approval process, public companies the firm represents are well respected within the international market. As a result, MZ has developed a stellar reputation as a premier resource for institutional investors, brokers, analysts and private investors. Additionally, MZ Group was recently ranked No. 1 consultancy in Latin America and No. 7 in the world in business communication.
Ted Haberfield, president for MZ North America, and the MZ Group team will be advising the company in all facets of corporate and financial communications. MZ will support Blue Calypso in executing virtual webinars and in-person roadshows in key cities as well as building brand awareness with the financial media.
"With the recent patent award in our new gamification family, strategic investment and key upcoming partnerships and milestones, we are now ready to engage U.S. investors and we have decided to partner with MZ Group to continue to expand and strengthen our investor relations program in North America," said Blue Calypso CEO, Andrew Levi. "MZ Group provides the reach and established track record we need to develop relationships with the retail and institutional investors who are seeking disruptive technologies dedicated to improving the ROI for large brick-and-mortar retailers in the Amazon' world of today. Our mobile engagement solutions bridge the gap between brands and consumers."
President of MZ Group North America, Ted Haberfield commented: "MZ Group is excited to have the opportunity to partner with a technology innovator like Blue Calypso. After completing comprehensive due diligence, which included speaking with industry consultants, we're convinced that Blue Calypso is at an inflection point regarding market awareness, market traction and market share growth. Blue Calypso provides a scalable, quantifiable value-prop to its customer base; a set of characteristics we like to identify with and something that we feel fits well into our portfolio of partner companies."
"Blue Calypso is poised to be a dominant player in a growing and necessary vertical of technology; that of customer identification, customer engagement, customer marketing and customer analytics capture. With a substantial portfolio of proprietary technologies, a management team with a credible plan for a continuation of growth and a substantial IP moat, we're confident in our ability to execute a comprehensive investor relations campaign with Blue Calypso. We look forward to conveying the unique aspects of the Blue Calypso narrative to market participants and ultimately to help unlock shareholder value."
About MZ GroupMZ, founded in 1999, combines capital markets intelligence, global investor targeting, IR technology, corporate governance, media and corporate communication and IR consulting, providing comprehensive programs that successfully build and manage shareholder value. With a team of highly experienced senior professionals and an integrated service portfolio, MZ ensures that companies are provided with the right tools and strategies to interact effectively with the investment community and the media, successfully conveying the investment message. MZ's market intelligence, advisory and tactical support activities for investor relations and corporate communications programs are underpinned by a comprehensive IT infrastructure, allowing companies to rapidly achieve global standards of best practices. For more information, please visit www.mzgroup.us
About Blue Calypso, Inc.Dallas-based Blue Calypso, Inc. (OTCQB:BCYP) develops and delivers an innovative location-centric mobile shopper engagement experience for brands, retailers and consumers. The Company's KIOSentrix platform connects consumers to brands, drives local in-store traffic, increases shopper spend and shortens the consumer's path-to-purchase. The Company was recently selected to Retail CIO Outlook magazine's "Top 10 Merchandising Solution Providers - 2016." For more information about the company, please visit www.bluecalypso.com.
Forward Looking Statements Statements in this press release that are not statements of historical or current fact constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Such forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other unknown factors that could cause the actual results of the Company to be materially different from historical results or from any future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. In addition to statements which explicitly describe such risks and uncertainties, readers are urged to consider statements labeled with the terms "believes," "belief," "expects," "intends," "anticipates," "will," or "plans" to be uncertain and forward-looking. The forward-looking statements contained herein are also subject generally to other risks and uncertainties that are described from time to time in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Media and Investor Relations:
HCK2
Rachel David
972.499.6630
Rachel.David@hck2.comMZ GroupChris Tyson
Managing Director - MZ North America
Direct: 949-491-8235
chris.tyson@mzgroup.uswww.mzgroup.us
Source: Blue Calypso
This article appears in:
News Headlines
Referenced Stocks:
BCYP
Latest News Video
Man shot during fight at Tempe apar... Florida missing teens fishing boat... An unusual place to vote China Is Biggest Excess Mankind Has...
Login
Please enable JavaScript to view the Comments powered by RealTidbits
Related stocks Articles
Subscribe
US Equities Futures Follow Asia, Europe Lower as China Manufacturing Data Disappoint
5/03/2016 08:16 AM
Canada Market Outlook
5/03/2016 08:15 AM
Market Timing Part 4: Modern Graham Central Value Model
5/03/2016 07:40 AM
CLOSEX
Sign-in
Existing NASDAQ.com member? Log in here.
By signing into to the site using any of the third-party services above, you agree to NASDAQ.com's Terms of Use.
Welcome back:
Log in using your:
Account
Switch Accounts
Highest Rated Articles of Last Week
Facebook Inc: Dont Sweat Facebook C Shares (FB)
Medtronic VenaSeal Closure System Demonstrates Long-Term Durablity...
Grain Traders Rejecting New Monsanto Soybeans
PowFolio to Launch in Time for Free Comic Book Day
Synaptics Reports Results for Third Quarter Fiscal 2016
View All Highest Rated
Most Active by Volume
Company
Last Sale
Change Net / %
BAC
$ 14.77
0.211.44%
VRX
$ 32.65
0.712.13%
F
$ 13.62
0.060.44%
AAPL
$ 93.64
0.100.11%
FCX
$ 13.55
0.453.21%
FTR
$ 5.44
0.122.16%
PFE
$ 32.80
0.090.28%
TVIX
$ 3.40
0.4311.23%
As of 5/2/2016, 04:15 PM
More Most Active
NASDAQ.com
Company News
/
Annual Report
/
Contact
/
Advertise on Nasdaq.com
Terms of Use
/
Privacy Policy
/
Sitemap
/
Glossary
/
General Feedback
/
CLOSEX
Edit Favorites
Enter up to 25 symbols separated by commas or spaces in the text box below. These symbols will be available during your session for use on applicable pages.
Update
Clear List
CLOSEX
Customize your NASDAQ.com experience
Background Color Selector
Select the background color of your choice:
Black
Slate Gray
Light Gray
Gray Blue
Quote Search
Select a default target page for your quote search:
Real-Time
After Hours
Pre-Market
News
Flash Quote
Summary Quote
Interactive Charts
Default Setting
Please note that once you make your selection, it will apply to all future visits to NASDAQ.com.
If, at any time, you are interested in reverting to our default settings, please select Default Setting above.
If you have any questions or encounter any issues in changing your default settings, please email isfeedback@nasdaq.com.
CLOSEX
Please confirm your selection:
You have selected to change your default setting for the Quote Search. This will now be your default target page;
unless you change your configuration again, or you delete your
cookies. Are you sure you want to change your settings?
YES
NO
CLOSEX
We have a favor to ask
Please disable your ad blocker (or update your settings to ensure that javascript and cookies are enabled), so that we can continue to provide you with the first-rate market news and data you've come to expect from us.