Karim Habib, the Beirut-born car designer, has been in charge of BMW design in Munich since 2012.Source:Supplied The E65 generation Chris Bangle-designed 7 Series was the first project Habib was involved in at BMW.Source:Supplied The Vision 100 concept unveiled to mark the companys 100th anniversary demonstrates how BMWs signature kidney grille will completely morph into a new function in the future of Munichs zero-emissions electric vehicles.Source:Supplied BMWs history is key to Habibs inspiration when designing any new model.Source:Supplied If theres no need for radiators on electric cars of the future, what are we going to do in a world without BMWs iconic kidney grilles? BMW design boss Karim Habib tells wheels about the future of car design, and the welfare of that signature kidney grille in the face of the oncoming electric revolutionBeirut-born Karim Habib moved to Canada at a young age and graduated in Montreal with an engineering degree. But his heart was set on car design and in the Nineties he studied art in Switzerland and California before going straight into the design studio of BMW. The Munich carmaker gave him his first big break working on the E65 7 Series.Habib has risen to take the post of head of design at BMW, a position hes held since 2012. Amid the setting electric revolution, its only natural for us car guys to panic about the future of car design. Its all unknown territory, so wheels posed a few questions to Habib about BMWs vision of the oncoming years in car design.wheels: We have to know, regarding a future full of electric cars, does that mean the kidney grille is in danger of being left out seeing as it wont be a functional design element any more?Karim Habib: With the BMW Vision Next 100 we worked on the assumption that the air intakes in the radiator grille of future cars will no longer have their original function. And that meant the door was open for us to transform that area of the car
so that now it contains sensors and cameras. That has the major advantage of turning the kidneys, together with the hallmark BMW twin headlights and L-shaped rear lights, into a communications tool. If the driver switches into Ease Mode (to let the car drive autonomously, in other words), their decision is signalled by the lights. They communicate with other road users and give pedestrians, for example, a sign when the car has spotted them and they can cross the road safely.w: In terms of design, how do you cater for different parts of the world and widely varying cultures, where aesthetic values might be poles apart?KH: Our customers love driving
regardless of the culture they come from. But tastes and cultures also differ, of course. Thats why we monitor cultural and social trends all around the world and keep in close contact with our customers. It means we can identify their individual needs and desires. And the result is that our products are far more than the sum of their functions. In order to fulfil this ambitious objective, we work on developing a standalone and authentic design language
one which fits the brand and keeps its powerful heritage in mind while shaping its future.w: What is luxury to you, and does it seem too often about materialism?KH: As well as high-quality materials and spaciousness, modern luxury in our eyes also means having scope for individualisation and offering a very high level of technical comfort. This is particularly important for us, as sophisticated technologies will make using cars simpler and more intuitive, not more complex.w: How so?KH: They will take distractions away from drivers, so that they can focus on greater priorities. That might be the act of driving, but could also be other things while theyre being driven. The critical element for us, though, is that they decide. That drivers and their needs are always the focal point, regardless of whether or not theyre driving themselves. Thats why luxury at BMW is not only a material thing, but also functional.w: Who or what are your design influences from the past?KH: When Im working on a new BMW, I always draw influences from the brands past
even if specific decades or icons are only referenced, and those references are future-led. BMW has always evolved, but its never completely reinvented itself. To see where youre going, you need to look back to where youve come from.w: What do you think will be the design theme of the 2020s and beyond?KH: Of course, new technological possibilities also offer a constant wave of new aesthetic possibilities
which are warmly welcomed by us as designers. I think the car design of the future will be clear, personal and intelligent. In other words, it will adapt to the needs of drivers. As for materials, another consideration is our progression towards a zero-emission car. We believe customers will go further still when it comes to sustainability. Theyll be asking how much energy has been consumed in making the product, what materials it is made from and how the materials have been sourced or created.w: OK, and the last one: is design subjective or a calculated art?KH: Some aspects of design are subjective, like form, colour and materials. However, other aspects
such as functionality
are calculated.TweetPrintEmailShare More Feature storiesHow BMW is saving the kidney grilleWhats a Jaguar designers favourite car design?Hot wheelsPorsche 718 Boxster drivenHappy Birthday FerruccioWhat price luxury?Top 10 Coolest Supervans EverGT3 RS for Dh1,100!Top 10 CorvettesMcLaren 675LT Spider driven in ScotlandMercedes-AMG S 63 Cabriolet tested5 luxury yachts made by car folkTop 10 Art CarsTesting, testing7 things you have to know about the new TVRWho in the world is Cardi?Benetti Fisker 50 conceptTop 10 Ed Welburn designsTop 11 outrageous Rolls-Royce customer ordersGT-R sets new drift record

