Subscribe free to our newsletters via your Email Address
SPACE DAILY
SPACE WAR
Subscribe free to our newsletters via your Email Address
SPACE DAILY
SPACE WAR
TERRA DAILY
ENERGY NEWS
MARS DAILY
GPS DAILY
SEED DAILY
WIND DAILY
DISASTER NEWS
SOLAR ENERGY
MEDICAL NEWS
NUCLEAR NEWS
OIL & GAS NEWS
BIO FUEL DAILY
Advanced self-propelled Russian rifle gets satellite-navigated shells
by Staff Writers
Moscow (Sputnik) Apr 26, 2016
File image: Koalitsiya-SV 2S35 self-propelled howitzer.
Russia's advanced self-propelled howitzer, the Koalitsiya- SV, is capable of firing high-precision shells, which are navigated using a GLONASS module, according to the Russian newspaper Rossiyskaya Gazeta.
Russia's state-of-the-art Koalitsiya-SV 2S35 self-propelled howitzer will be equipped with high-precision projectiles that will be navigated via the GLONASS satellite system, the Russian newspaper Rossiyskaya Gazeta quoted Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Mikhail Osyko as saying.
According to him, the projectile was developed as part of another to equip the Koalitsiya-SV with a new munitions array which will significantly increase the howitzer's effective range and accuracy.
"When will all the necessary tests come to a close, this projectile will rightly be considered a high-precision weapons," Osyko pointed out.
As for the GLONASS navigation module, it will be installed inside the upper part of the Koalitsiya-SV's 152-mm artillery shell, according to Rossiyskaya Gazeta.
The device includes a combined fuse, GLONASS receiver and aerodynamic control surfaces, which are arranged in the air and adjust the trajectory of the projectile.
It is worth adding that a Russian-made satellite-guided missile is worth just 1,000 dollars, a sea change from the 80,000-dollar 155-mm Excalibur GPS-guided projectiles used by the US Army.
Presented to the public during the Victory Day Parade in Moscow on May 9, 2015, the Koalitsiya-SV, with its maximum firing range of up to 70 kilometers, is designed to eliminate enemy tactical nuclear weapon systems, artillery and mortar batteries, as well as armored units and infantry.
It can also effectively destroy enemy anti-tank weaponry, anti-aircraft systems and missile defense systems as well as and command and control installations.
Source: Sputnik News
.
Related Links
Russian Defense Industry News
GPS Applications, Technology and Suppliers
Tweet
Comment on this article via your Facebook, Yahoo, AOL, Hotmail login.
Share this article via these popular social media networks
del.icio.us
Digg
Reddit
Google
Previous Report
Satellite touchdown in run up to Galileo launch
Paris (ESA) Apr 11, 2016
The latest pair of navigation satellites has reached Europe's Spaceport in French Guiana, beginning a new Galileo launch campaign, which will culminate in a launch on 24 May. The 13th and 14th Galileo satellites left ESA's technical centre in Noordwijk, the Netherlands, on Monday, safely cocooned within protective air-conditioned containers.
They were taken by road to Luxembourg Airport, w ... read more
Top African producer bans GM cotton
Could global warming's top culprit help crops?
Phosphorus tax could be huge if tropical farming intensifies
The P tax cometh
A single-atom magnet breaks new ground for future data storage
Hafnium oxide used for new type of non-volatile memory
Quantum computing closer as RMIT drives towards first quantum data bus
'Odd couple' monolayer semiconductors align to advance optoelectronics
Heavy-lift helicopters test external load capabilities
Russian stealth bomber to carry hypersonic missiles
Experts examine new debris for MH370 clues
Delayed take-off for China's own regional jet
More carmakers caught in VW engine-rigging scandal
Carmakers focus on China as scorching market slows
China's Tesla BYD has electric dreams
China could electrify global rechargeable car market
China defends ground in steel crisis talks
New BRICS-supported bank approves first set of loans
Steel producers to urge China to cut output
Panama Canal restricts ship depth due to drought
Which trees face death in drought
Researchers look at how best to conserve forest giants
Clear-cutting destabilizes carbon in forest soils, Dartmouth study finds
Senegal environment ministry delegation arrested by Gambia
Sentinel-1 sees rice paddy drop in the Mekong Delta
DigitalGlobe delivers first phase of continent-scale mapping initiative for PSMA Australia
Astrix fiber optic gyro to fly on NASA CNES mission
Study shows cloud patterns reveal species habitat
Ultra-long, one-dimensional carbon chains are synthesised for the first time
Rice introduces Teslaphoresis to help assemble Nanotubes
Intracellular recordings using nanotower electrodes
'Honeycomb' of nanotubes could boost genetic engineering
Memory Foam Mattress Review
SPACE MEDIA NETWORK PROMOTIONS
Solar Energy Solutions
Tempur-Pedic Mattress Comparison ...
Newsletters :: SpaceDaily :: SpaceWar :: TerraDaily :: Energy Daily
XML Feeds :: Space News :: Earth News :: War News :: Solar Energy News
The content herein, unless otherwise known to be public domain, are Copyright 1995-2016 - Space Media Network. All websites are published in Australia and are solely subject to Australian law and governed by Fair Use principals for news reporting and research purposes.
AFP, UPI and IANS news wire stories are copyright Agence France-Presse, United Press International and Indo-Asia News Service. ESA news reports are copyright European Space Agency. All NASA sourced material is public domain. Additional copyrights may apply in whole or part to other bona fide parties.
Advertising does not imply endorsement, agreement or approval of any opinions, statements or information provided by Space Media Network on any Web page published or hosted by Space Media Network. Privacy Statement
All images and articles appearing on Space Media Network have been edited or digitally altered in some way. Any requests to remove copyright material will be acted upon in a timely and appropriate manner. Any attempt to extort money from Space Media Network will be ignored and reported to Australian Law Enforcement Agencies as a potential case of financial fraud involving the use of a telephonic carriage device or postal service.