Your site will load in 16 seconds
Skip This >>
Top navigation
Login
Register
Basket
About Us
About Us
Contact Us
Advertise
Writers
Andrew Wooden
Laura Barnes
Dominic Sacco
Jade Burke
NewBay Network
Audio Media International
BikeBiz
Develop
Installation
Licensing.biz
MCV UK
MCV Pacific
MI Pro
Music Week
PCR
PSNEurope
ToyNews
TVBEurope
Partners
Google Double Click
McCormack & Morrison
Regenology
Sarsen
Yudu
Comscore
ABC
PPA
PC Retail
Online
Print
Digital
Email
Mobile
Main navigation
Home
News
New Gear
Events
Reports
HOT TOPICS
PCR Boot Camp 2016
Retail
Distribution
Vendors
Opinion
Appointments
Interviews
Analysis
<
>
Check out our top 20 indie retailers
...
Exertis and NGD launch first data centre
...
Nvidia GeForce GTX 1080 to be unveiled on Friday, May 6th - same day as Battlefield 5
by
Laura Barnes
Tuesday, May 3rd 2016 at 12:09PM
Print this page
Email
Share on Twitter
Share on Facebook
Share on Google
Share on LinkedIn
Nvidia will unveil its next-gen GeForce video cards at the end of the week, according to various reports.
The GPUs will be showcased at a press event on the same day that EA will be unveiling Battlefield 5.
Nvidia is hosting its secretive meeting where the selected invitees will be introduced to GP104 and GP106, the second and third chip based off the Pascal GPU architecture.
The GP104 will be branded as GeForce GTX 1080, succeeding the GeForce GTX 980. Advertisement
The 1080 is one of Nvidia's most powerful video card to date, boasting a 16nm FinFET process technology. The 1070 is thought to run a bit slower than the 1080, but will still mark an upgrade from the older models.
PCR reported earlier this year this Nvidias new Pascal GPU tech would be unveiled sometime between April 4th and 7th, so these reports are in keeping with those dates.
It is thought that the graphics cards will be on display at Computex in June. The firms CEO and co-founder Jen-Hsun Huang is believed to be hosting a keynote on the second day of the event, where he is expected to reveal Nvidias plans for its Pascal GPUs.
Rather than bring a prototype, Huang is allegedly showcasing a working unit.
According to reports, Nvidias new Pascal GPUs will be available for consumers to buy sometime between May 31st and June 4th.
EA is making sure that gamers put Nvidias new cards to good use by showcasing the worldwide premier of Battlefield 5 on the same day at 1pm Pacific, 9pm BST.
Battlefield 5 will be the 11th title released under the Battlefield franchise, and is rumoured to be set in the First World War.
Those wanting to watch the trailer for the new game can follow the count down at www.battlefield.com/event.
Tags:
Nvidia,
Graphics Cards,
ea,
geforce,
gpus,
GTX 1080,
Battlefield 5
Follow us on
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Related Stories
Here's what the Nvidia GeForce GTX 1080 looks likeApr 20th 2016 at 11:16AM
New gear: HP Z workstations, Acer Chromebase Meeting solution, XYZPrinting 3-in-1 3D printer, Nvidia Tesla P100 GPUApr 8th 2016 at 2:36PM
HP and Nvidia join forces for professional VR workstationsApr 5th 2016 at 2:10PM
PCR's guide to PC gaming componentsMar 18th 2016 at 10:33AM
AMD's 16 teraflop Radeon Pro Duo is the world's fastest graphics cardMar 16th 2016 at 2:29PM
NVIDIA introduces new graphics techniques with GameWorks SDK 3.1Mar 15th 2016 at 11:58AM
Featured Video
Find out what becoming a TrustATec partner could do for your business!
Get the latest news sent to your inbox
Sign up to receive PCR's email news updates and access to other online products and services.
Sign Me Up
Events
17
Sep
FutureFest 2016London
25
Jul
Sage Summit 2016Chicago, USA
18
May
NEC Solutions Showcase 2016London
More Events
Most Popular
Most Viewed
Here's what the Nvidia GeForce GTX 1080 looks likeNew GPU expected to include 8GB of either GDDR5X or GDDR5 RAM
Nvidia Pascal graphics cards due between May and June; AMD Polaris GPUs expected Q3Yoyotech, Entatech and an anonymous source comment on upcoming GPUs
GAME presents free-to-play Christmas Shopper SimulatorFestive take on a Goat Simulator-style mini game for PC and MAC
Christmas Shopper Simulator 2: GAME's festive smash is back with a Black Friday twistChristmas Shopping Simulator 2: Black Friday will let gamers revel in the chaos of the
...
McDonald's to install Samsung Galaxy tablets in UK restaurants so customers can play games while they eatThe tablets form an important part of McDonalds new Experience of the Future programme'
Most Comments
'The cloud is the most important trend shaping Intel's future' - CEO Brian Krzanich
Intel CEO outlines how the firm will power the next generation of technologies
Security Roundup: Why SMBs are just as vulnerable to cyber attacks as large organisations
PCR takes a look at the latest security news in the channel
Most Emailed
There are no articles to display.
Read more from
Dark Souls 3 PC players in disarray over hacking claims
With pre-orders still unfulfilled, Oculus rolls out to US retail
Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered won't be sold separately
Read more from
Romero delays Blackroom Kickstarter to finish off gameplay demo
PlayStation will be looking for VR and PS4 developer partners at Interface next week
Pitch your game to Curve's business development manager in person at Interface
Read more from
L-Acoustics KS28 debuts on David Gilmour tour
Bespoke beats and the rise of the musical hacker
HK Audio targets install market with Business Solutions division
Footer navigation
Home
News
New Gear
Events
Reports
Back to Top
About PCR
PCR delivers priceless trade information for the home and business computing sector across a unique combination of print, online, digital, apps, mobile, event and social channels.
NewBay Media
Audio Media International
MCV Pacific
PCR
BikeBiz
MCV UK
PSNEurope
Develop
MI Pro
Sourcebook
Installation
ToyNews
Licensing.biz
Music Week
TVBEurope
Copyright
NewBay Media 2016.
Privacy|
Terms|
Accessibility|
Site Map