
Advanced Social Targeting Extends Reach of Digital Video Advertising.
Facebook continues to bridge the gap between traditional and digital channels with advancements to its TRP (target rating point) video advertising platform that make it easier for advertisers to extend TV ads to social channels.Last week, Facebook unveiled updates to its advertising interface that grant marketers access to dayparting and Nielsen DMA targeting. These features offer targeting during specific parts of the day and access to specific local television market areas respectively. This allows advertisers to target the same Nielsen designated market areas in the US that their TV buys are reaching, and select dayparts in four-hour blocks for TRP campaigns. With advanced targeting, marketers can extend the reach of their TV campaigns to specific audiences across Facebook and Instagram, and squeeze additional ROI from existing video content.

Additionally, in the next few months, Facebook will expand partnerships with Nielson, comScore, and Integral Ad Science to verify ad viewability and attention metrics for photo and video ads hosted on its network.Our client Pep Boys was invited to join Facebooks beta advertising program to test these targeting features throughout the month of March. Additional audience insights from new targeting features allowed our team to expand the reach of video ad campaigns and generate actionable engagement. Our cross-channel video campaigns leveraged similar targeting features throughout YouTube advertisements and across connected devices. Together, this campaign allowed Pep Boys to maximize advertising budgets and optimize the ROI from video content delivered to highly relevant, engaged audiences across the web.Facebook hopes that marketers will leverage its new functionality to rethink the way they deliver digital content and video advertising to consumers. It recommends that video ads be kept concise to heighten message clarity and captivate users on smaller screens. Additionally, Facebooks auto-play feature requires brands to ensure their message is delivered without the need for sound. Therefore, it is also recommended that brands include captions with social video content and to continuously test and learn from audience data insights.For a deeper look into optimizing targeting updates and video content for mobile experiences, explore the assets Facebook provided to marketers in its recent news update.

