Ocean of news here
Subscribe for free:Newsletter|News alert
Follow us:
Victoria
Go to mobile version:
Business
National
World
Environment
Entertainment
En franais
Editorial
Best in Seychelles
LifestylePeopleArts & CultureSeychelles Buzz
Seychelles motorbike lovers get first-ever bike show with more to come
Victoria, Seychelles | May 3, 2016, Tuesday @ 15:48 in Entertainment
LIFESTYLE | By: Madiha Philo and Betymie Bonnelame | Views: 105
Bike lovers in Seychelles hosted their first show ever in the car park of Le Palme Residency ( Jean-Francois Barallon)Photo license Purchase photo
Send to Kindle
(Seychelles News Agency) - The roaring and revving of motor bicycles caught the attention of the Seychelles public on Saturday when the bikes passed by Le Palme Residency in the northern district of Anse Etoile where a group of bike lovers hosted their first show ever in the island nation.
Jean-Francois Barallon, one of the organisers, says he and other bike-loving friends decided to host the bike show to promote motorcycling in the Seychelles, an archipelago in the western Indian Ocean.
Nothing has been done so far for bike lovers [in Seychelles]. There are a lot of people who love bikes and bikes are becoming popular as well, so we decided as a group of friends to come together and organize a show, said Barallon better known as Jeff.
He added the show,which was done in the parking of Le Palme Residency, was for people to come and have a good time, look at the motorcycles, participate in discussions and at the same time have fun with some music, food and drinks.
One of the most popular attractions in the show was the Ducati Diavel 1200c motorcycle, and many in the crowd wanted to take it for a test drive.
One of the most popular attractions in the show was the Ducati Diavel 1200c motorcycle ( Jean-Francois Barallon) Photo License: All Rights Reserved
The Ducati is a cruiser motorcycle manufactured in 2010 with automatic ignition and an engine resembling that of a car. It can reach a maximum speed of 272 kilometers per hour with 121 kilowatts of power, and a tank capacity of 17 litres of fuel.
It is the only model of its kind in Seychelles at the moment and belongs to local gym owner Gilles Pinchon.
Since I was a child I loved bikes, I had pictures of bikes covered on the wall in my room. Eventually when I turned 18, I got my first bike which was an SVA Enduro 125cc because I couldnt get a bigger bike at that time. But when I turned 20, I got a bigger one a V-Max 1200c, said Pinchon, who added that: I have loved the Ducati for a while so when I got the opportunity to buy one I did not hesitate.
There are a lot of people who love bikes and bikes are becoming popular in Seychelles ( Jean-Francois Barallon) Photo License:All Rights Reserved
Another motor bicycle that awed many attendees of the event was the BMW R1200cc belonging to well known body builder Jaques-Allain Hoareau.
This model is also a cruiser motorcycle manufactured from 1997
2004 and became a hit when it featured in the James Bond Movie Tomorrow Never Dies, which is where Hoareau said he saw it for the first time and fell in love with it instantly.
Having a motorbike is something that is great fun. You have a problem you just jump on your bike, start and let it take you wherever it wants to without thinking you can see yourself in a place that you would have never expected. It is a good form of meditation, and this is how I live with my bike, Hoareau said.
The promoters say there will be more motor bike events in the near future ( Jean-Francois Barallon) Photo License:All Rights Reserved
Barallon, the organizer, is going even further to promote motor bicycles in the Seychelles. He is the editor of Ride or Drive, an automotive magazine he is publishing bimonthly for the past year.
It (the magazine) includes cars, bikes and other interesting topics. Its got new cars that agents give me to test, and I talk about it in my magazine to give people an idea of the product. People also come to me with their personal cars that have an interesting history, modification, tuning, adventures that they have been through with their motorbikes, Barallon said.
If you love motor bicycles get ready for more events and much bigger coming up shortly, say the organizers.
Lifestyle
Be a reporter: Write and send your article
Subscribe for news alert
More from Lifestyle
A taste of Lebanese (by delivery!) in Seychelles
Entertainment
Lifestyle | April 19, 2016, Tuesday @11:16
Natural hair: A fast-growing movement in Seychelles
Entertainment
Lifestyle | March 8, 2016, Tuesday @12:31
Lose weight and tone up like Seychellois pro fitness model
Entertainment
Lifestyle | January 17, 2016, Sunday @12:56
A Christmas homecoming: Seychelles for the holidays
Entertainment
Lifestyle | December 25, 2015, Friday @17:09
12 days of Christmas shopping dampened by election mood
Entertainment
Lifestyle | December 22, 2015, Tuesday @15:14
Make yourself number one, says H Resort Seychelles spa director and life coach Steve Harvey
Entertainment
Lifestyle | November 1, 2015, Sunday @10:47
Fisheries
Tuna commission proposes cutting yellowfin catch by 20 percent
Conservation
Silhouettes volcanic origin creates ideal habitat for Seychelles' rarest species
Top news
Seychelles motorbike lovers get first-ever bike show with more to come
Scientists discover three 'potentially habitable' planets
Angleterre - Un sacre qui fait entrer le "petit" Leicester dans l'histoire
Tags
tourism
Seychelles Tourism Board
Air Seychelles
President James Michel
James Michel
All tags
Archives
Date:
Advanced search
Mobile website
Photo Licenses
About Seychelles News Agency
Advertise
Contact us
Copyright & Disclaimer
Privacy policy
All Rights Reserved
Seychelles News Agency, 2016.			Web design and maintenance by M3 Communications Group, Inc.