More
Magazines
Photo District News
Rangefinder
Shutterlove
PDNEDU
Emerging Photographer
Tradeshows
PhotoPlus Expo
WPPI
Blogs
PDN Pulse
PHOTO OF THE DAY
Photo Forward
Services
PhotoServe
PhotoSource
Contests
PDN
Rangefinder
WPPI
Shutterlove
Membership
DIGITAL EDITION |
NEWSLETTERS |
RSS |
LOG IN
Home
News
Legal
Copyright
Awards
Competitions
Collections
Obituaries
Features
Photographer Interviews
Techniques
Lighting
Video
Photo Assistants
Advertising
Photo Books
Marketing
Gear
Cameras
DSLR
Compact Cameras
Video
Lenses
Tripods
Lighting
Flash
Software & Storage
Bags
Printing
Contests
Blog
About Us
Subscribe to PDN
FOLLOW US ON
marketing
How Storytelling Platform Narratively Assigns and Selects Photo Stories
May 03, 2016
By David Walker
NARRATIVELY/PHOTO
RODOLFO DIAZ.
For a recent story on artists exploring the legacy of mass incarceration, Narratively commissioned Rodolfo Diaz to photograph artist Sable Elyse Smith in her South Bronx studio.
Zara Katz, director of photography at Narratively, explains how the storytelling platform sources and selects photo stories for publication.
PDN: What is the editorial mission of Narratively?
ZARA KATZ: Were a storytelling platform for extraordinary stories about ordinary people. Often those are the stories that fall through the cracks, because theyre not necessarily breaking news. A lot of our stories are personal, character-driven, single-person stories.
PDN: What are some examples of photo stories that define the brand?
ZK: A story I love is called Sister Sparkle and the Queer Nuns of the Redwood Forest. The subject is not just a drag queen. Shes also a nun who has committed her life to charity, living in northern California.
PDN: Who shot the story?
ZK: The photography is by Talia Herman and the text is by Drew Denny. They worked as a team. The photographs get at that perfect natural redwood forest light, in a location you would not normally think to see a drag queen. It focuses on just one sisters story. You also get a sense of the small town location, which is impoverished.
PDN: Whats another example of a photo story that fits the mission?
ZK: We recently published a story [photographed by Jnos Chial & Tali Mayer] about a Jewish baker in New York who is from Ukraine, who decided to move back to Ukraine and open a Jewish bakery, even though there are few Jews there. The piece was pitched as a story about a Jewish enclave in Ukraine, but then we decided it should be a story about this one man.
PDN: How did you shape the story from the pitch?
ZK: It takes a round of questions: Who are the characters? What is the action? Whats the conflict? The week before, we published a story by Myriam Meloni thats not driven by a single character. Its about how Moldovas high unemployment rate is causing many working-age people to emigrate, leaving their children in orphanages or with grandparents. But Myriams captions tell very personal stories about specific families and what life is like for them.
PDN: Whats the best way for photographers to pitch stories?
ZK: We have a Submittable link on our website. Submittable doesnt allow you to embed captions in photos, so Im asking photographers to submit a caption document when they submit pictures. You need caption information or I cant bring the story to the editors for consideration. You have to be able to say: This is the story, this is the narrative, these are the voices and the characters, so we know who that ordinary person with the extraordinary story is.
PDN: How do you select stories? Whats the process?
ZK: We have weekly pitch meetings. The majority of stories have been pitched through Submittable, but I am also reaching out to my network of photographers to ask what they havent published. The passion projects and projects that arent tied to a news peg can fall through the cracks. A really good example is Giles Clarkes work in Cancer Alley in Louisiana. Hes a Getty Reportage photographer, but his Cancer Alley story didnt have a specific news peg that made other outlets want to publish it. But for us, it was a very personal story with compelling images, and its evergreen, with a human angle thats resonant.
PDN: Do you publish stories that have appeared elsewhere?
ZK: Everything Narratively publishes is original. If it has been published somewhere else, as long as theres a new edit, or a new voice thats in there, well publish it.
Elliot Rosss story on wheat farmers in Canada had been published elsewhere, but working with a new edit and the photographers notes, Narratively put together a story that focused on how the family survives in the off season. Image
Elliot Ross
PDN: Whats an example of story that youve re-published in a new way?
ZK: We just published a story by Elliot Ross, about wheat farmers in Colorado. It had been published in The Atlantic, The Guardian and on Feature Shoot. The family has this intense time during the harvest, and thats when [Ross] was there shooting, but we asked: What are they doing the rest of the year? So we were able to expand the text.
PDN: Did he have to go back and do more reporting?
ZK: Elliot had written about his personal experience and observations, but Narratively is not as interested in the blog format of discussing the photographers experience. So I asked him what else he had, and he sent notes that got at what we were looking for: What the family does in the winter, what their income is, how they are sustaining themselves as a family farm.
PDN: Do you commission stories?
ZK: For many of the text articles, we commission photography or illustration. When assigning photographers, I primarily hire women and photographers of color because I am passionate about shifting the dynamics of this industry. For instance, I recently worked with Rodolfo Diaz to create portraits of two artists in their studios for a story about the legacy of mass incarceration.
PDN: How much do you pay?
ZK: Approximately $250 per story. We recognize its an honorarium, a stipend, but Narratively is also a place to do something different, that other outlets wouldnt publish. Were constantly increasing our rates, and we have set aside money to do really big stories this year.
PDN: What do you mean by big stories? And what will they pay?
ZK: This is the first year were going to do it, so its a blank slate. I would love to see a team [photographer and writer] bring forward an idea for a package. The photos dont need to tell the same story as the text, but they need to build on each other. Thats what Id like to see: a well reported story, and great photos that are not just reportagetheres something experimental in the photographs.
PDN: Are you looking for pitches now?
ZK: Yeah, its not like someone would tag a pitch #bigstory, but the editors will recognize it when they see it. I cant give an exact number for the funding, but it would be a respectable number that might allow two people a week to work on a story theyve already done the groundwork on.
PDN: How is Narratively funded?
ZK: We have Narratively Creative Group, which produces branded content for partners. There are not going to be ads on our site, but we are also partnering with socially conscious brands to sponsor our site.
PDN: Besides submitting online, are there other ways to reach you?
ZK: The easiest way for me to pitch a story to other editors is if the story comes through Submittable. But photographers can send me a message, and I love meeting people in person.
Zara Katz is also co-founder and producer of @Everydayincarceration and part-time photo editor at the Economic Hardship Reporting Project.
See the story in the digital edition (for PDN subscribers; login required).
Related:Create Spotlight: Visual Storytelling at The Atlantic
How Photo Editors Find and Hire Photographers
INSIDERS/OUTSIDERS Presented by Narratively
Print
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
comments powered by Disqus
NEWS
Sergey Ponomarev for The New York Times
2016 Photography Pulitzers Go to The New York Times, The Boston Globe, and Thompson Reuters
FEATURES
GLENNA GORDON
Glenna Gordon's Diagram of the Heart
CONTEST
The Curator
CURRENT ISSUE
Ina Jang
PDN April 2016: The PDN's 30 Issue
- ADVERTISEMENT -
Log in to access all of the PDN archives and the full benefits of your PDN subscription.
Log in now
The Latest Exclusive Headlines
Client Meeting: A Branding Agency with a Sense of PlaceCreate Spotlight: Visual Storytelling at The AtlanticTake advantage of exclusive subscriber discounts & resources
- ADVERTISEMENT -
- ADVERTISEMENT -
See Sample & Privacy Policy
- ADVERTISEMENT -
ABOUT US |
CONTACT US |
BACK ISSUES |
IN PRINT |
MEDIA KIT |
SITE MAP
Contact PDN |
About Photo District News |
Camera Reviews and Gear Guide |
Photography Blog |
Photo News |
Photo Magazine- Print Subscription |
Photography RSS Resources |
Free Photography Newsletter |
Photo Magazine Advertising |
Photographer
Features & Resources |
Stock Photographs
2016 Emerald Expositions, LLC. All rights reserved. Read our
TERMS OF USE
and
PRIVACY POLICY