
Voters go to the polls in Indiana Tuesday, where a win for Donald Trump could effectively end the race for the Republican nomination for president.It is likely that a win in the Democratic and Republican primaries there will cement the nominations for GOP front-runner Donald Trump and Democratic leader Hillary Clinton. Both Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Texas), and Sen. Bernie Sanders (I-Vermont), are holding out hope of a Hoosier State victory and the chance to fight through to their respective conventions this summer.Both the Indiana primaries are open primaries -- meaning any registered voter may cast a ballot in the Republican or Democratic primary, regardless of party affiliation.Polls will open from 6 a.m.
6 p.m. ET in the eastern portion of the state. In the western portion of the state, which is in the Central Time Zone, polls are open from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. CT.What will they win?On the Democratic side, 92 delegates are at stake. On the Republican side, there are 57 delegates in play.Heres how the delegates are divided:For Democrats, of the 92 delegates, 18 will be awarded proportionally based on the statewide vote, and 9 will be PLEO delegates, or delegates defined as pledged party leaders and elected officials. There are also 56 district delegates are awarded proportionally based on how many votes the candidates get within each of the states congressional districts, and 9 unpledged or superdelegates in Indiana.>>What is a superdelegate, and what do they do?For Republicans, of those 57 delegates, 27 are a-large, awarded to the candidate who wins more votes statewide. Twenty-seven are awarded to the person who wins in each of the states congressional districts.Three are party candidates
Republican party officials.The delegates are pledged to their candidate for only the first ballot at the GOP convention this summer.>> How many delegates does Donald Trump have?According to a story from Politico, more than 66,000 Indiana Republicans had returned early ballots before the pact was announced.How many delegates do they need to win the nomination and how many delegates are left?The number of delegates needed to win the Republican nomination is 1,237. As of Monday, there are 571 Republican delegates yet to be allotted.A Democratic candidate needs 2,383 delegates to win the nomination. There are still 1,243 Democratic delegates to be allotted.
