site
Archive
eEdition
|
subscribe now
|
newsletter
|
sign in
classifieds
jobs
cars
homes
FEATURED
NEWS NOW
COLUMN: Trip to D.C. with WWII veterans humbles young O-D reporter
...
Hotel Utica closing, which was expected earlier, could come this month
...
UPDATE: Name released in Sylvan Beach drowning
...
COLUMN: Trip to D.C. with WWII veterans humbles young O-D reporter
...
Hotel Utica closing, which was expected earlier, could come this month
...
UPDATE: Name released in Sylvan Beach drowning
...
OUR VIEW: New York shows the way
Assemblyman Anthony Brinidisi, D-Utica, was on the right track all along. For years Brindisi pushed for a pathway to high school graduation that would allow non-college bound students to develop a worthwhile career in technology or the trades. The state Board of Regents finally approved the Career and Technical Education (CTE...
Comment
By OBSERVER-DISPATCH
Uticaod
By OBSERVER-DISPATCH
Posted May. 3, 2016 at 3:15 AM
By OBSERVER-DISPATCH
Posted May. 3, 2016 at 3:15 AM
Assemblyman Anthony Brindisi, D-Utica, was on the right track all along. For years Brindisi pushed for a pathway to high school graduation that would allow non-college bound students to develop a worthwhile career in technology or the trades. The state Board of Regents finally approved the Career and Technical Education (CTE) Diploma in October 2014 that allows students to receive training and certification in manufacturing and high technology specialties.Parents and educators are now charged with pointing young people who demonstrate the necessary skills toward these productive careers. In short, not every kid needs to be college-bound because there are other types of post-secondary training and/or certification that can be just as rewarding.Brindisi and New York state were out in front on this. Last week, the Associated Press reported that vocational education is making a comeback in many schools across the nation. States such as California, Colorado and Louisiana are looking to rebranded career pathways that combine technical training with academics built around an industry theme as a way to get more young people to pursue some post-secondary education
whether its a certificate from a two-year school or a four-year degree. Supporters hope it will keep students engaged and prepare them for the stable, middle-income jobs employers say they cant fill.Thats precisely the goal of New Yorks CTE program.Im very proud we were in the lead on this as a region, said Oneida-Herkimer-Madison BOCES Superintendent Howard Mettelman. We believe the need will be there in the future for the trades.State lawmakers get their share of criticism, often deservedly so, for their inability to get things done. But they should be credited, too, when they do things right. Brindisi long argued that the CTE diploma will improve high school graduation rates and provide good-paying manufacturing jobs while replenishing the dwindling supply of trades people. Now it seems the rest of the country is catching on. Go figure.
By OBSERVER-DISPATCH
Uticaod
By OBSERVER-DISPATCH
Posted May. 3, 2016 at 3:15 AM
Comment or view comments
Terms of Service
uticaod.com
Utica Directory
Featured Businesses
Loading...
Business Name
addressLocation, ST | website.com
Find Utica Attractions
Bars
Restaurants
Beauty Salons
Entertainment
Doctors
Medical Specialists
Contractors
Education
Lawn Services
Lawyers
Shopping
Travel
Tanning
Used Cars
Wedding Services
Add your business here +
Events Calendar
Connect with Uticaod
Facebook
Twitter
RSS
Back to top
Site Services
Contact Us
Subscriber Services
Classifieds
Submit Announcements & News
Market Place
Classifieds
Real Estate
Your Community News
Blotters
Herkimer County
Oneida-Verona
New Hartford
Rome
Utica
Oneida Indian Nation
Whitestown
Blogs - Living - Sports
Sports: Anne Delaney
Sports: John Pitarresi
Sports: Ron Moshier
Boilermaker
College
Pro Sports from AP
Propel Marketing
More Content Now
Find&Save
Mobile Site
Stay Informed
Email newsletter
Sign Up Today
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
Copyright 2006-2016 Gatehouse Media, LLC Some rights reservedPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service|Gatehouse Media Publications
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted. Uticaod | 221 Oriskany Plaza, Utica, NY 13501