Skip to content
Aruba's Social Column
Bati Bleki Weekly Recap
8am buzz
About Rona Coster
Tourism Updates
Off Season Blues: Good for the Consumer, OR Advertising Pays!
Chef Gerard Coste, Hilton Aruba Caribbean Resort & Casino
We noticed an ad in the newspaper advertising the 7th anniversary of Papillon Restaurant in June, telling us that the restaurant is celebrating the occasion with a 7-course carte blanche dinner menu for the merciful price of $70 per person. Each course comes with a perfectly paired glass of wine. So imaging during April, May & June, the 7-course dinner will be offered with weekly changing menu items. And while we were on the subject of Papillon Restaurant, we went to their FB page, and were reminded that Yes, theyre in: White gold, famed fresh, Dutch asparagus is available in a variety of dishes, April 14th to June 14th.
Friends who already went, report the asparagus, buried in dirt to prevent it from becoming green, is simply delicious, served Dutch style, Hollandaise, or modestly, Flemish style, Flamande, with other pairings such as Black Angus Beef or pan fried Halibut, skin on. What did I tell you? It pays to advertise because we made a reservation for a group of friends, for May 21st. The name of the restaurant has nothing to do with the little dog with feathery ears, nor the formal bowtie. It is named after the famous French convict Henri Charriere, who was locked up on Devils island, and escaped riding a bunch of tied up coconuts, in the 40s. The story was made into a famous movie, and the cuisine of the restaurant ties European dishes to Caribbean flavors, hence the name. reservations@papillonaruba.com.
That same paper, business must be good for the Aruba Today, advertised the Sunset Grille, at the Hilton Aruba Caribbean Resort & Casino, with a Wednesday Surf & Turf special, a great deal at $49.95 per person including onion soup with gratinated provolone cheese, or a house salad with grilled romaine lettuce, fresh spinach, local mushrooms, red onions and Parmigiano cheese, drizzled with mustard vinaigrette and crushed pepper; then a Surf & Turf, marrying 100 % Certified American Black Angus tenderloin and jumbo garlic shrimp, sauted onions and garlic mashed potatoes with a cilantro avocado chimichuri and red wine sauce; followed by a trio dessert sampler with mango cheese cake, raspberry sorbet & chocolate cake. The restaurant recently received a contemporary makeover, which coincided with the arrival of its new Executive Chef, the recently recruited Gerard Coste. We love and appreciate Gerard, the French-born culinary wizard who made Aruba his home, and the kitchen of the Hilton Aruba Caribbean Resort & Casino the place where he practices his creativity and good taste. The new dcor at the Sunset Grille is themed around fine wine and focuses on genuine reclaimed wooden wine boxes of both rare and popular selections from wine-producing countries around the globe. The stylish wine boxes created by the wineries to store and protect their precious cargo all carry unique logos and careful notations where the wine was produced. Many of these logos are masterpieces of traditional design, endorsed by royalty and cherished as historical documents.
Bottom line: The dinner experience at the Sunset Grille is now greatly enhanced by the new color scheme and the elegant furnishings, capturing the imagination of visiting and local wine and food lovers. Its a very good offer at $49.95. Tel.: 586 6555, ext 6612
Same newspaper, the Ritz Carlton Aruba is advertising new Sunset Dinner Menus for $55 per person, at BLT Steak with a selection of different appetizers, main courses, sides and desserts, for an early 6:00pm to 6:45pm seating. I couldnt find a FB page for the restaurant, nor a website, so I called and received the regular menu by e-mail, which I knew; I have been there before, wow. Very delicious and worth the trip to Malmok, just dont stuff yourself with the amazing bread right away, stir far away from the signature warm popovers. You should know that BLT Steaks parent company, ESquared Hospitality, also runs a BLT in Miami and New York. The Aruba branch enjoys a raw bar, choice steaks, a great wine list, and a great view. Signature dessert items include warm crpe souffl or peanut butter chocolate mousse! Tel.: 527 2222
The off season blues: Good for the newspapers, good for the consumer, and it pays to advertise, because I read every word and wrote a column!
Posted on May 3, 2016May 3, 2016Author RonaCategories 8am buzz
Post navigation
Previous Previous post: Crisis management in Aruba, tfu tfu tfu! May nothing ever happen!
VisitAruba.com Member Site
Design & Hosting by CaribMedia