Job Board
Betakit.Fund
Tips
Resources
Canadian Startup Map
Community Events
About
Team
Write for BetaKit
Contact Us
Advertise
The Disruptors
Wearable Weekly
Canadian Startup News
Google acquires Toronto-based Synergse to add to its Apps product suite
Bench raises $20 million CAD series B as it focuses on building new product
Influitive adds former Salesforce senior director to its team as it pursues aggressive growth
Acquisitions
Changes
Feature
Funding
Launches
Partnerships
Tech Innovation
Bridging to Technology: Launching an indigenous technology ecosystem in BC
Data mining innovation spawns a new kind of Gold Rush
18-year-old Canadian demos second invention on The Tonight Show
Innovation
Growth
Trends
By Patrick O'Rourke
Acquisitions, Canadian Startup News, Technology
May 3, 2016
Google acquires Toronto-based Synergse to add to its Apps product suite
Google has reportedly acquired Toronto-based Synergse in order to create a new training tool for its suite of Google apps. Financial terms of the deal have not been disclosed.
Google Apps was built to provide powerful cloud-based productivity and communications, in an easy-to-use set of applications. And today our Apps product suite, which includes Gmail, Calendar, Drive, Docs and more, is now used by more than 2 million paying businesses around the world. As more businesses sign up, we wanted an elegant way to scale our training offerings to our customers and our customers users, writes Google in a recent blog post regarding the acquisition.
Synergse is most known for its use in the enterprise space, where the company takes advantage of Googles cloud platform to create how-to guides. According to Synergse, companies that take advantage of its training services have on average 35 percent higher adoption across Apps products, meaning those organizations are more likely to be productive, collaborative and embrace digital transformation.
Google says that Synergyse has built a virtual coach within Google Apps interface and cloud-based platform, featuring interactive teaching modules that include both voice and text guides.
Following the acquisiton, Synergyse says that all training related to Google Apps will now be free. Over 3,000 companies (including four million users) have been using Synergyses Google App training services, including Motorola, Woolworths, News Corp and Dow Jones.
Synergyses training app is available as a Google Chrome extension.
This article was originally published on Mobilesyrup
acquisitionstoronto
Share on:
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
Google +
Linkedin
Patrick O'Rourke
MobileSyrup staff writer | It was all a dream I used to read EGM magazine
Previous articleBench raises $20 million CAD series B as it focuses on building new product
Recent CommentsDaniel Dubois on Guiides connects adventurous travelers with experiences off the beaten pathJon Pineda-Mayo on StackAdapt adopts CPE model as advertising struggles to keep up with digital content consumptionAli Mahmoud on Seven reasons were excited for Startup Canada Day on the HillLatest Posts
Google acquires Toronto-based Synergse to add to its Apps product suite
Bench raises $20 million CAD series B as it focuses on building new product
Influitive adds former Salesforce senior director to its team as it pursues aggressive growth
#BKchats: Lets talk about startups and mental health
More BetaKit Stories
Hootsuite acquires Vancouvers Sales Prodigy
Hootsuite announced today that it has acquired local Vancouver startup Sales Prodigy. Terms of the acquisition were not disclosed. Sales Prodigy produces a mobile
Connect with BetaKit
Upcoming Events
Startup Canada Day on the Hill
May 5 @ 8:00 am - 7:30 pm
Digital Media Summit (DISCOUNT)
May 5 @ 8:30 am - 6:00 pm
AccelerateOTT
May 5 @ 9:00 am - 4:30 pm
#TechTO
May 9 @ 6:00 pm - 9:00 pm
MARKET
May 10 @ 6:30 pm - 9:00 pm
View All Events
Recent Posts
Google acquires Toronto-based Synergse to add to its Apps product suite
Bench raises $20 million CAD series B as it focuses on building new product
Influitive adds former Salesforce senior director to its team as it pursues aggressive growth
Most Commented
61
BetaKit Wants to Send You to T...
26
Due South: opportunities are n...
26
Win a ticket to #GROWconf and ...
Copyright 2012-2015 MobileSyrup, BetaKit
Back to top