Home
Earth
Earth Sciences
May 3, 2016
Tracking climate change? Use the daily highs
May 3, 2016
by Phillip Gentry
Scientists using long-term surface temperature data to track climate change caused by greenhouse gases would be best served using only daily high temperature readings without the nighttime lows, according to new research at The University of Alabama in Huntsville (UAH).
Using temperature data from Alabama going back to 1883, scientists in UAH's Earth System Science Center developed and tested various methods for creating stable, reliable long-term climate datasets for three portions of inland Alabama.
In addition to creating some arcane mathematical tools useful for creating climate datasets, the team also found daytime high temperature data is less likely to be contaminated by surface issues - such as deforestation, construction, paving and irrigation - than nighttime low temperatures.
"If you change the surface, say if you add buildings or warmer asphalt, you can enhance nighttime mixing of the lower atmosphere," said Dr. John Christy, the ESSC director and a distinguished professor of atmospheric science at UAH. "That creates a warming caused by vertical mixing rather than changes in greenhouse gases."
Summer high temperatures are particularly useful in this regard, because summer temperatures tend to be more stable, while cold season temperatures are subject to larger swings due to natural variability. These often-wild swings in temperature introduce "noise" into the data, which can mask long-term trends and their causes.
Results of this research were published recently in the American Meteorological Society's Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology.
Basically, under pristine natural conditions, in most places a cool layer of air forms close to the ground after sunset. This layer of denser, cooler air creates a boundary layer that keeps out warmer air in the deep layer of the atmosphere above it.
Then people move in. People tend to do all sorts of things that mess with the local climate. Breezes blowing around buildings can cause nighttime turbulence, breaking apart the cool boundary layer. Streets, parking lots and rooftops absorb heat during the day and release it into the atmosphere at night, also causing turbulence. Irrigation increases dry soil's ability to hold heat and releases a powerful greenhouse gas (water vapor) into the lowest levels of the atmosphere over dry and desert areas.
That's the short list.
When the cool layer of air near the surface is disturbed, warmer air aloft is drawn down to the surface.
All of those cause real changes in the local climate, raising local surface temperatures, especially at night, by amounts large enough to be noticed both by weather station thermometers and by people living in some of those areas.
But none of those changes has anything to do with widespread climate change in the deep atmosphere over large areas of the globe, such as might be seen if caused by increased concentrations of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.
"Over time this might look like warming or an accumulation of heat in the temperature record, but this temperature change is only caused by the redistribution of warmer air that has always been there, just not at the surface," said Dr. Richard McNider, a distinguished professor of science at UAH.
So how can climatologists use existing long-term surface temperature records to accurately track the potential effects of enhanced CO2?
Take the nighttime boundary layer (and all of the things we do to interfere with it) out of play, say Dr. Christy and Dr. McNider.
"We prefer to take temperature measurements in the deep layer of the atmosphere, which is why we use instruments on satellites," Dr. Christy said. "But the satellite data only goes back to the last few days of 1978. We use the surface record because it is longer, and we really want to look at data that goes back much further than 1978.
"Because of the natural mixing of the atmosphere caused by daytime heating, daily maximum temperatures are the best surface data to use to look at temperatures in the deep atmosphere. At the surface, the daytime maximum temperature just represents more air than the nighttime low."
The new temperature datasets extend the existing climatology for three regions of interior Alabama (around Montgomery, Birmingham and Huntsville) by a dozen summers, all the way back to 1883. Summers in Alabama have been cooling, especially since 1954. Interior Alabama's ten coolest summers were after 1960, with most of those after 1990.
As might be expected given that cooling, climate models individually and in groups do a poor job of modeling the state's long-term temperature and rainfall changes since 1883. The researchers conclude the models - the same models widely used to forecast climate change - show "no skill" in explaining long-term changes since 1883.
Explore further:
Growing Population Warming East African Nights?
More information:
John R. Christy et al. Time Series Construction of Summer Surface Temperatures for Alabama, 18832014, and Comparisons with Tropospheric Temperature and Climate Model Simulations, Journal of Applied Meteorology and Climatology (2016). DOI: 10.1175/JAMC-D-15-0287.1
Provided by:
University of Alabama in Huntsville
3 shares
feedback to editors
Tweet
Favorites
Email
Print
PDF
Featured
Last comments
Popular
Climate-exodus expected in the Middle East and North Africa
May 02, 2016
15
Pop goes the weasel as Hadron Collider shuts down (Update)
Apr 30, 2016
37
Just 40 light years from Earth, three planets might host life forms adapted to infrared worlds
21 hours ago
12
Physicists abuzz about possible new particle as CERN revs up
May 02, 2016
15
Genetic analysis of Ice Age Europeans
21 hours ago
0
more
Phys.org on facebook
Relevant PhysicsForums posts
Measuring How Many Days Are in a Year - Comments
7 hours ago
Could we stop a tornado this way?
Apr 30, 2016
Not Another, Gosh: Vanuatu hit by large quake
Apr 30, 2016
Global Warming
-
why half a degree matters
Apr 30, 2016
Magnetic Field from Core?
Apr 29, 2016
What causes volcanoes to erupt?
Apr 29, 2016
More from Earth
Related Stories
Growing Population Warming East African Nights?
March 31, 2009
Nights are getting hotter in Nairobi and other inland cities as growing populations change sensitive local weather patterns, according to research at The University of Alabama in Huntsville.
Earth's temperature depends on where you put thermometer
January 20, 2016
When it comes to measuring global warming, it's all about altitude.
Understanding why nights are getting warmer faster than days
March 10, 2016
Observations from the last fifty years have shown that the nights have been warming much faster than the days. Analysis of the causes of this more rapid warming at night shows that this is likely to continue in the coming ...
Winds hide Atlantic variability from Europe's winters
March 15, 2016
Shifting winds may explain why long-term fluctuations in North Atlantic sea surface temperatures have no apparent influence on Europe's wintertime temperatures. The findings, published in Nature Communications, could also ...
Insulating layer of air above the Greenland ice sheet reduces precipitation
April 29, 2016
The Earth's climate has been warming, but even though the Greenland ice sheet is melting rapidly in the coastal regions, there are large parts of the ice sheet (40 percent) where there has hardly been any melting on the surface. ...
Climate-exodus expected in the Middle East and North Africa
May 2, 2016
The number of climate refugees could increase dramatically in future. Researchers of the Max Planck Institute for Chemistry and the Cyprus Institute in Nicosia have calculated that the Middle East and North Africa could become ...
Recommended for you
Well-travelled plankton could ride out global warming
May 3, 2016
Plankton have evolved to survive a wide range of conditions, thanks to their unexpectedly vast ocean travels, a new study suggests.
Methane production reduced in ruminants
May 3, 2016
Researchers at the Spanish National Research Council (CSIC) have taken part in a study of the effect of one molecule, 3-nitrooxypropanol, in inhibiting methane production in ruminants. The work has been published in the Proceedings ...
Hurricanes key to carbon uptake by forests
May 2, 2016
While hurricanes are a constant source of worry for residents of the southeastern United States, new research suggests that they have a major upsidecounteracting global warming.
How much does groundwater contribute to sea level rise?
May 2, 2016
Groundwater extraction and other land water contribute about three times less to sea level rise than previous estimates, according to a new study published in the journal Nature Climate Change. The study does not change the ...
Raindrop splash is a surprise source of fine soil particles in the atmosphere
May 2, 2016
Most of us think of that sweet smell after a storm as the aftereffect of rain that has rinsed the air of pollutants and dust. But it turns out that rain also triggers the release of a mist of particles from wet soils into ...
Influence of sea-ice loss on Arctic warming is shaped by temperatures in the Pacific Ocean
May 2, 2016
Influence of sea-ice loss on Arctic warming is shaped by varying temperatures in the Pacific Ocean, new study shows
0 comments
Please sign in to add a comment.
Registration is free, and takes less than a minute.
Read more
Click here to reset your password.
Sign in to get notified via email when new comments are made.
phys.org
Nanotechnology
All Nanotechnology
Bio & Medicine
Nanomaterials
Nanophysics
Physics
All Physics
Condensed Matter
General Physics
Optics & Photonics
Plasma Physics
Quantum Physics
Soft Matter
Superconductivity
Earth
All Earth
Earth Sciences
Environment
Astronomy & Space
All Astronomy & Space
Astronomy
Space Exploration
Technology
All Technology
Business
Computer Sciences
Consumer & Gadgets
Energy & Green Tech
Engineering
Hardware
Hi Tech & Innovation
Internet
Other
Robotics
Security
Semiconductors
Software
Telecom
Chemistry
All Chemistry
Analytical Chemistry
Biochemistry
Materials Science
Other
Polymers
Biology
All Biology
Biotechnology
Cell & Microbiology
Ecology
Evolution
Other
Plants & Animals
Other Sciences
All Other Sciences
Archaeology & Fossils
Economics & Business
Mathematics
Other
Social Sciences
Enter your Science X account credentials
Remember me
Forget password?
Sign In
Sign in with your Facebook or Google+ account
Not a member? Register
Profile
Newsletter
Favorites
Activity
PM
My news
Sign out
Top
Home
Medical Xpress
Search
Help
FAQ
About
Contact
Phys.org Account
Sponsored Account
Newsletter
RSS feeds
Feature Stories
Latest news
Week's top
Archive
iPhone iPad Apps
Blackberry App
Android App & Widget
Amazon Kindle
Mobile version
Connect
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Phys.org 2003 - 2016, Science X network