Subscribe
Sign In
Register
Home
Subscribe
Buy E-N Merchandise
Contact Us
About Us
Advertise With Us
Subscriber Services
Place a Classified Ad
Privacy Policy
Site Terms of Use
Newsletters & Text Alerts
Find a Business in S.A.
News Archives
Brackenridge junior catcher feels a calling to the military,
Today in S.A. history
Community briefs - Southside Reporter
Holy Cross takes control early to secure 4-4A title
Local
News by Neighborhood
Texas
Obituaries
Traffic
Weather
Lake and River Levels
S.A. History
Guide to San Antonio
San Antonio Charity
Breaking News Video
Classifieds
Freshmans heroics propel Southwest past bi-district round
Sam Houston boys capture Region IV-5A track championship
Brackenridge junior catcher feels a calling to the military,
Today in S.A. history
US & World
Breaking News Anywhere
Border & Mexico
US
World
Health Care
Politics
Military
Track Flights
Strange News
Anti-abortion activist goes to trial over letter to doctor
Teacher sick-outs close most Detroit schools for a 2nd day
10 Things to Know for Today
Funeral will honor 6 of 8 victims in Ohio family shootings
Business
Local
Eagle Ford & Energy
National & International
Automotive News
Top Workplaces in S.A.
Technology
Business Features
Finance Features
Business Careers
Tech Features
Press Releases
From new to old, some of the gun safety features over time
Pioneer Energy Services books a $27.7 million loss, but beats
Appeals court rules against borrowers
The Wonder Woman and other power poses to raise your confidence
Sports
San Antonio Spurs
NBA
NFL
MLB
Soccer
Colleges
College Football
College Basketball
High Schools
High School Football
High School Basketball
Postgame Wrap: No call, but Spurs make no excuses in Game 2 loss
Postgame Wrap: No call, but Spurs make no excuses in Game 2 loss
Wild Spurs finish features botched officials' call, fan grabbing
Golf: Mondays high school results
Food
Restaurants
Food Voted Best in S.A.
Recipes & Cooking
Bars & Drinks
Snacks and Entertaining
Guide to Food in S.A.
Sponsored: Sip, Savor, Celebrate
San Antonio chef to cook at the White House for Cinco de Mayo
A James Beard award for S.A.? Wait until next year
Bohanan's bartender wins Patrn's Margarita of the Year contest
San Antonio chocolatier in final four of Spring Baking Challenge
Entertainment
What S.A. is Watching
Things To Do
Fiesta 2016
Rodeo 2016
Celebrity Buzz
Comics
Puzzles
Horoscope
Movies & TV
Music & Stage
Arts & Culture
Guide to San Antonio
Readers' Choice
Photos at S.A. Parties
Destinations
Ashley Sawyer, Catfish Alum, Dies at 23
Tobin announces theater, dance seasons
SA arts groups prep Big Give programming
13 things (besides the Spurs) to know about in San Antonio this
Lifestyle
Wedding Announcements
Bridal Ideas
Travel & Outdoors
Destinations
Health & Family
Senior Living
Home & Garden
Home Decorating
Trends & Style
Beauty and Fitness Tips
Better Living Tips
Gift Ideas
Pets
Green Living
'Millie the dumpster dog' is healing in foster care, Facebook
12 stylish rental cabins in Texas perfect for summer vacation
Who controls your medical and financial decisions when you're
The Legacy at Longue Vue
Opinion
Editorials
Commentary
Letters to the Editor
Columnists
Third & Ave. E
Editorial Cartoons
Josh Brodesky
Robert Seltzer
O. Ricardo Pimentel
Bruce Davidson
Maria Anglin
Gloria Padilla
Fiorina a smart choice for Cruz
GOP, millenials not seeing eye to eye
Lets look beyond Trump to those in pain
Your Turn: May 3
Cars
Car Tips and Help
News & Reviews
Vehicle Search
Car Features
Latest Car Reviews
VWs Passat sedan gets updated for 2016, bringing styling
Nissan Murano crossover returns for 2016 after getting a complete
Cadillac rolls out the all-new CT6 sedan, and one couple gets
Jobs
Salary Wizard
Top Workplaces
Career Features
Proposed rule would delay questions about criminal history
US consumer spending inches up in March
US economy struggles at start of election year
Homes
Home Search
Apartment Search
Land
Rentals
Open Houses
New Homes Search
Hill Country Living
New Construction
Real Estate Tips
Home Yard Tips
Home DIY
Kitchen, Bed and Bath
Home Decorating
Austin cliff-side mansion with granite bathtub hits market for
The 9 most expensive homes on the market in San Antonio
San Antonio architecture firm Lake | Flato honored again for this
Local developer amasses land along Broadway near The Pearl
Find&Save
MenuSections
http://www.mysanantonio.com/business/fool/article/Value-Investing-in-Spring-3-Stocks-to-Put-on-7389689.php
Value Investing in Spring: 3 Stocks to Put on Your Radar in May
Steve Symington, Dan Caplinger, and Neha Chamaria, The Motley Fool
Published 6:22am, Tuesday, May 3, 2016
Image source: Emerson Electric.
As the month of May hits the ground running, many investors will inevitably begin to mull the old investing adage, "Sell in May and go away." But regardless of what mathematical gymnastics proponents of "sell in May" might be able to come up with to justify the strategy, the most astute investors know there arealwaysbargains to be found in our market, if you know where to look.
So we asked three Motley Fool contributors to offer a potentially cheap stock they believe investors would be wise to keep an eye on in the month of May. Read on to see which companies they chose, and why.
: As the weather starts to warm, fashion and apparel companies will be ready to capitalize as consumers pursue their newest seasonal offerings. I think investors would be wise to keep an eye on Michael Kors Holdings in May. Despite climbing nearly 30% year to date on the heels of its strong quarterly report in February -- which saw both revenue (up a modest 6.3% year over year, and 9.9% at constant currency) and comparable-store sales (down 0.9%, and up 2% at constant currency) arrive well above the company's expectations -- Michael Kors stock still trades at a reasonable 11.9 times trailing-12-month earnings, and just 11.3 times next year's estimates.
That's not to say the relative discount is entirely undeserved: The value of Michael Kors shares plunged by nearly half in 2015 as the company showed signs of decelerating top-line growth, as comps turned negative toward the end of the year. But in its most-recent quarter, Michael Kors CEO John Idol noted the company's latest offerings enjoyed overwhelmingly positive responses from consumers.
Idol also offered guidance for constant-currency revenue growth in the high-single-digit percentage range, and for comps to continue to demonstrate improvement going forward. If that guidance comes to fruition when Michael Kors next announces quarterly results toward the end of May, I think the stock will have plenty of room to rise from here.
Neha Chamaria: Emerson Electric
may have been caught in the whirlwinds of plunging oil prices, but its solid financial standing, growth plans, and shareholder returns, make it a great bet for long-term investors.
Despite lower organic sales, Emerson turned in nearly 30% higher earnings per share in 2015. Its profits may decline this year, but I still see huge potential value in Emerson as it aggressively sheds parts of its hugely diversified portfolio to emerge a leaner company focused on high-margin businesses like industrial automation and commercial and residential solutions. As of now, Emerson has put up its motors and drives unit for sale, while Siemens has reportedly expressed interest in its network power business.
While the restructuring should boost Emerson's margins, the proceeds from divestment should add to its already heavy war chest: Emerson generated roughly $1.8 billion in free cash flow during the last 12 months, and held $3.1 billion in cash and equivalents as of Dec. 31, 2015. More cash is also good news for income investors who are already enjoying Emerson's above-3% yield.
Even as Emerson's order book is expected to grow through the rest of the year, its outlook for 2016 already appears to be on the conservative side. In other words, I don't see the company springing up any nasty shocks in its upcoming earnings report that could pull the brakes on its stock price, which is why I'm adding it to my watch list now.
In either case, if Emerson's recent rally concerns you, consider that the stock's current valuation of 15 times trailing earnings is way off its historical highs. Now that's a decent bargain for a stalwart remodeling itself to better tackle headwinds, and return greater value to its shareholders.
Dan Caplinger: As spring unfolds, one key rite of passage that is now largely over for millions of Americans is getting their tax returns prepared and filed. For investors in tax preparation companyH&R Block , the quarter that covers tax season, including the late winter and early spring months, is the most important for the company. In a typical year, the fiscal fourth quarter makes up for losses during the remainder of the year. This year should be no different in that regard, and most of those following the stock expect solid gains on the bottom line for H&R Block.
Yet H&R Block trades at a relatively inexpensive valuation, fetching just 12 times projected forward earnings. One reason is that investors are concerned about recent efforts to reform the tax system, believing that they could result in a much simpler process for filing returns that would cut H&R Block and other tax preparers out of the loop.
However, long-term investors in the tax-prep industry have a long memory of similar ideas coming up during every presidential election campaign; yet what seems to emerge is an ever-more-complex set of rules and regulations for taxpayers to follow. With the stock price falling by a third since earlier this year, H&R Block is worth a closer look for those who think taxes will stay as complicated as ever.
A secret billion-dollar stock opportunity The world's biggest tech company forgot to show you something, but a few Wall Street analysts and the Fool didn't miss a beat: There's a small company that's powering their brand-new gadgets and the coming revolution in technology. And we think its stock price has nearly unlimited room to run for early in-the-know investors! To be one of them, just click here.
The article Value Investing in Spring: 3 Stocks to Put on Your Radar in May originally appeared on Fool.com.
Dan Caplinger has no position in any stocks mentioned. Neha Chamaria has no position in any stocks mentioned. Steve Symington has no position in any stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool owns shares of Michael Kors Holdings. The Motley Fool recommends Emerson Electric. Try any of our Foolish newsletter services free for 30 days. We Fools may not all hold the same opinions, but we all believe that considering a diverse range of insights makes us better investors. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.Copyright
1995 - 2016 The Motley Fool, LLC.
All rights reserved. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy.
Latest Business News
Does This Upstart Pose a Threat to GlaxoSmithKline?
Better Buy Now: Nike, Under Armour, or Lululemon?
The Weak Oil Market Continues to Batter MRC Global Inc.'s...
Airline Earnings Look Great on Paper, Thanks to Oil
Forget Bluebird Bio, Inc.: These 3 Stocks Are Better Buys
Why Twitter Inc. Stock Dropped 11.7% in April
1 Fast-Growing Energy Dividend Stock Not Being Hurt by Oil...
6 Must-Read Quotes from Microsoft's Earnings Call
Warm Weather Continues to Cool Off UGI Corp.'s Earnings
Value Investing in Spring: 3 Stocks to Put on Your Radar in May
Ready for Medicare? Not Until You Read This
For Interactive Intelligence, the Future Gets Cloudier
4 Things You May Be Surprised to Learn Costco Sells
This is Why 2015 Was So Great for NVIDIA Stock
Apple Watch: A First-Year Win, but What About the Long Term?
Business Videos
Stay Connected
Most Popular
1
Sheriff: California mother connected to 'horrific' child abuse...
2
Sheriff: 8 children rescued, woman arrested after 'horrific'...
3
Thank you for subscribing
4
Texas teen ejected from carnival ride to her death at El Paso...
5
These were the 30 highest paying jobs in the San Antonio area...
6
Young fan traveled 3 hours to meet the San Antonio Spurs for...
7
Warrant: Slain pregnant Texas teen found with uterus removed
View Comments
2016 Hearst Communications, Inc.
Logo
Return to Top
About
Corporate Home
Careers
Advertising
Ad Choices
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights
Contact
FAQ
Newsroom Contacts
Purchase Photos
Place a Classified Ad
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Instagram
Subscribe
San Antonio Express-News
ExpressNews.com
iPad app
eEdition
Search Our News Archive
Manage Your Subscription
Hearst Newspapers
Copyright Hearst Newspapers, LLC