Skip to Navigation
Skip to Content
Tuesday, May 3,
2016
Commerce.gov
Site Feedback
Open Government Directive | Commerce.gov
Home
Data Sets
FOIA
Open Government Plan
Propose Your Ideas
Search:
Home
Propose Your Ideas
Open Government Team
Ellen HerbstChief Financial Officer and Assistant Secretary for Administration,Head of Open Government Working Groupopen@doc.govCatrina PurvisChief Privacy Officer and Director of Open Government Joey HutchersonDeputy Director, Office of Privacy and Open Government
Connect With Us
Interact with Commerce on the social media sites you already use every day.
More About OpenGov
whitehouse.gov/open - Learn more about the President's efforts to increase transparency, participation, and collaboration throughout government.
Recovery.gov - See open government in action by tracking the spending associated with the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009
Data.gov - Access and discover new uses for the range of data produced by the federal government from one central location.
BusinessUSA.gov - See the "no wrong door" approach for small businesses and exporters.
FOIAonline - See the the start of a new era for the Freedom of Information Act within the Department of Commerce.
Open.commerce.gov Links
Office of the Secretary Links
Department of Commerce Person FinderOffice of the Secretary Report to CongressOffice of the Secretary Speeches and Testimony
Commerce Bureau and Agency Links
Propose Your Ideas
Got an idea you'd like to contribute to the U.S. Department of Commerce's Open Government plan?
Know a Commerce data set that, if released, could be used in interesting ways?
Have some strong opinions on how Commerce could be more transparent?Let us know using our citizen engagement tool, OpenCommerce.IdeaScale.com
By using our citizen engagement tool, you can work with the Commerce Open Government team by providing your own ideas for the Department's Open Government Plan, voting up and down others' ideas and participating in the larger dialogue about openness and transparency at Commerce.
Just click the button below to get started.
United States Department of Commerce
Home
Commerce.gov
Whitehouse.gov
Privacy Policy
Comment Policy
FOIA
Usa.gov
GobiernoUSA.gov
No FEAR Act
Fair Act
Recovery.gov