Serving the Grand Lake area since 1848 Celina, Ohio
Home
Subscribe
E-Edition
Archives
Stories
Pictures
Obituaries
Search
Sports
Photo Albums
Video
Classifieds
Public Notices
Advertising
Contacts
Forms
Locations
World Pictures
Community
Sudoku
Gas Calculator
Obituaries Archive
Entire Day Archive
Monday, May 2nd, 2016
Complete Obituary
Richard Naseman
Richard J. Naseman age 76 of New Bremen, Ohio, died on Friday, April 29, 2016 at 4:05 P.M. at his residence.
He was born on March 19, 1940 in Shelby Co. south of Anna, Ohio. He was the son of Carl L. and Hazel E.J. (Trippy) Naseman. On May 9, 1970, he married Diane L. Schmitmeyer who survives in New Bremen.
Also surviving are his children; Lori A. Buroker of New Bremen, Sandra D. (Scott) Wendeln of Minster, and Christina J. (Jason) Eilerman of Osgood, OH, and his daughter in law Peggy Naseman of Mt. Pleasant, WI. Also surviving are his 10 grandchildren; Jennifer McGregor, Lisa Silver, Andrea McGregor, David Buroker, Danielle Wendeln, Hannah Wendeln, Alayna Eilerman, Peyton Eilerman, Cole Naseman and Carter Naseman and 3 great grandchildren; Summer Butler, Isabelle Silver and Sierra Silver. Dick is also survived by his brother Maurice L. and Doris Naseman of Botkins, his sister Rosemary (Hill) Gianguzzo of Mesa, AZ, and in laws Sally Naseman of Botkins, Judy and Wayne Krebs of Botkins, Jerry "Tex" Schmitmeyer and Nick "Pickles" Schmitmeyer, both of Anna.
He was preceded in death by his parents, his son Master Sergeant Brian K. Naseman (Line of Duty Taji, Iraq
May 22, 2009), his sisters Margaret A. Naseman and Gladys Pauline Otting, his brothers John J. Naseman and Karl E. Naseman, 2 half sisters, Ruth Perin and Wanda Bartrug, 5 brother in laws, Aloysius Otting, Roy Hill, Delbert Perin, Kenneth Bartrug and James Gianguzzo and his father and mother in law; Lawrence H. and Marianna J. Schmitmeyer.
Dick was a member of the Church of the Holy Redeemer since 1980 after moving to New Bremen from Anna. He was a member of the New Bremen Band Boosters, and had served as Vice President and President of the Booster Club. He was a member of the American Legion Post 241 of New Bremen and the Crown Equipment Corp. 25 year club.
He was a 1958 graduate from Anna High School and he served in the U.S. Army from April 1963 until April 1965 during the Vietnam War. He served first with the infantry, stationed at Ft. Lewis, Washington, and then transferred to the 278 Signal Corp. Communications Division, working in teletype and crypto. During this time he served in Alaska, testing the equipment's tolerance to cold temperatures.
Dick had worked at Airstream of Jackson Center, Roettger Hardwood of Kettlersville, Provico Feeds in Botkins, the former Argosy Division of Airstream in Versailles and retired from Crown Equipment Corp. of New Bremen in 2005 after 25 years of service.
Dick was an avid bowler. He loved to watch NASCAR races on television, and had a large collection of Bill Elliot memorabilia. He loved going to the Eldora Speedway every weekend to watch the races, and he was a fan of OSU football, the Cleveland Browns, and the Cincinnati Reds.
Over the years he enjoyed watching his children and grandchildren participate in their various activities including track, cross country, baseball, softball, basketball, and other school functions. After his retirement, Dick took a liking of putting together jigsaw puzzles.
Mass of Christian Burial will be on Wednesday, May 4, 2016 at 11:00 A.M. at the Church of the Holy Redeemer in New Bremen, with Rev. Robert Hadden officiating. Burial will be in the Sacred Heart Cemetery, McCartyville, Ohio with full military honors by the American Legion Post 241 of New Bremen.
The family will receive friends from 2 until 7 P.M. on Tuesday, May 3, 2016 at the Gilberg-Hartwig Funeral Home in New Bremen, and on Wednesday one hour prior to the Mass at the church.
Memorial contributions may be made to the New Bremen Emergency Squad or to the American Legion Post 241 of New Bremen.
Condolences to the Naseman family may be left at gilberghartwigfh.com.
Additional obituaries for this date
Elaine DetwilerTrinity FusonBarbara Schwenzer-MosesDorothy CarrNellie Hamilton
Tuesday
62
23%
Tuesday Night
49
21%
Wednesday
58
69%
Wednesday Night
41
33%
Thursday
59
18%
Thursday Night
43
14%
Friday
64
10%
Friday Night
49
10%
Saturday
72
10%
Saturday Night
54
27%
3 Day
Extended
Photo Albums
Saturday, April 30
Coldwater vs Bath baseball
Friday, April 29
New Bremen Cardinal Invitational track meet
Friday, April 29
Parkway vs Wayne Trace softball
Thursday, April 28
Coldwater vs Versailles baseball
Thursday, April 28
Minster vs Fort Recovery softball
Online Video
Copyright
2016 Standard Printing Co. All Rights Reserved
The Standard Printing Co. publishes The Daily Standard, the daily newspaper covering the Grand Lake area in Mercer and Auglaize Counties.