Real Estate News and AdviceBrought to you by Mark Burns
Realty TimesArchivesMy Realty TimesSubscribe to My Headlines
Buyers' AdviceSellers' AdviceHomeowners' AdviceMortgage Advice
Tuesday, 03 May 2016
Share this Articlesharetweetplusshareemailpin
UK Overseas investors will not be put off by the Brexit
Written by
Mark Burns
on Tuesday, 03 May 2016 6:51 am
PRINT
|
EMAIL
Close More Deals - Qualify homebuyer leads fast and free
Many UK overseas property investors are unsure what effect, leaving the EU will have on their investment choices but it is unlikely to deter them from purchasing again according to a survey carried out.
The survey involved 871 people regarding an exit from the EU and how it would affect property purchases abroad but 90% of them said they had no idea what affect it would have.
Around 70% believe that leaving the EU will not stop investors from purchasing an overseas property but 40% are concerned about their overseas property.
At the moment, there are around 2.2 million British people living in the EU but outside of the UK and there is another million who own a holiday home. Over the last two years, UK property investment from overseas investors has grown and this has been boosted by the strong pound and well-priced property.
Another survey included 2,000 UK residents and this found that 10% of British people over the age of 45 are considering using their pension funds to purchase a property outside of the UK. Many people who we involved in the survey are unsure of the impact of exiting the EU would have on owning a home overseas simply because they do not see it as a problem. It is possible that there could be tax implications but it would be unlikely that restrictions would be brought in. A small amount of concern is possible but it is important that buyers seek advice before purchasing.
Should Britain leave the EU then the following changes could take place:
Currently, if you have resided in an EU state for over five years then you can legally apply to become a resident under current EU law. However, leaving the EU would mean that there are likely to be restrictions in place as well as integration rules which could mean having the ability to speak the same language of the country you plan to stay in.
For those who own holiday homes, the EU may expect UK citizens to submit an application for a visa to visit a country that is in the EU. Therefore, holiday home owners may experience more questions that could ask about their income, health cover as well as how long they plan to stay.
It is very likely that purchasers from the UK will still be able own property within the EU just in the same way that US citizens can in other EU countries. However, there could be issues surrounding inheritance and tax as current rules mean that non-EU citizens are treated differently.
Email Mark Burns about this article
About Mark Burns
Rate this item
1
2
3
4
5
(0 votes)
Tweet
Login to post comments
back to top
Individual news stories are based upon the opinions of the writer and does not reflect the opinion of Realty Times.
Contact Mark Burns About...
Buy a House
Selling a House
Market Conditions
Home Evaluation
Click here to email
or call
Brought to You By
Mark Burns
EMAIL
Mark Burns in the News
UK Overseas investors will not be put off by the Brexit
Property Sales to Slow as Buy-to-Let Loses Steam
Is property still worth investing in during 2016?
Property Investment Performance during 2015
Investment opportunity at Llana Beach, Ponta Preta
MORE >>
Mark Burns's
Realty Times TV
Existing Home Sales Up Year-over-year Watch Video
May 02 2016
Mortgage Payments When Finances Are Tight
May 02 2016
Kitchen Remodeling In Seven Steps
May 02 2016
The Dangers Of Being House Poor
May 02 2016
Sellers Also Have Closing Costs
More Videos
CONNECT:
HomeContactSubmit an ArticleArchivesMy Realty TimesSubscribe to HeadlinesVendor Sign UpUpdate E-Newsletter
Newsletters / Market Conditions LoginTerms and ConditionsAgent Publicity Package
Copyright
2013 Realty Times. All Rights Reserved.
Website created by Kacy Lane Designs