Subscribe
Log In
Search
Listen Now
Tuesday, May 3, 2016 83
Today's Paper
Weather
45F
Mostly Cloudy
Tuesday, May 3, 2016
Today's Schedule Listen Now!
Toggle navigation
News
Local
State
Nation - World
Business
Obituaries
Weather
Sports
Prep Sports
Illini Sports
All Sports
Illini Forums
Business
Living
A&E
Blogs
Opinion
Editorials
Letters
Columns
Guest Commentary
All Opinions
Multimedia
Photo Galleries
Podcasts
Videos
Classified
Place an Ad
Classified Listings
Garage Sales
Jobs
Jobs
Shop
Weekly Ads
Classified
Place an Ad
Classified Listings
Garage Sales
Jobs
Jobs
Shop
Weekly Ads
Jim Dey: Six-year-old routinely putting others in check
share
Facebook
Twitter
| Subscribe
More Local
Asmussen: Custard Cup group leaves good taste
Two more swastikas found drawn in UI Armory
Urbana detectives turn to state crime lab for leads in 1988 stabbing
First up on retired federal judge's docket? A bit of golf
Login Options
Commenting
Login to comment or to shop for deal of the day or books.
Member Login
Login to your member account to read premium articles.
Username or e-mail: *
Password: *
Create new account
Request new password
Close
Home
News
Local
Jim Dey: Six-year-old routinely putting others in check
Tue, 05/03/2016 - 7:00am | Jim Dey
Photo by: Kerry Rossow/For The News-Gazette
Daniel Zhang, 6, makes his move in a chess game Sunday at Lincoln Square in Urbana.
With his orange tennis shoes and blue-jean jacket, 6-year-old Daniel Zhang looks about like any other kid running around Lincoln Square in Urbana.
But put him behind a chess board, and a different Daniel emerges
a clear-eyed visionary who sees the big picture and isn't afraid to let older, more experienced opponents know that their number soon will be up.
"I'm setting a trap for you," Daniel told one opponent Sunday in a series of matches at the mall's courtyard chess cafe.
And so Daniel did, as he mowed down a series of opponents during a two-hour period that ended when he and some buddies opted for free play.
"I'm either going to my friend's house or playing basketball," Daniel said.
Basketball and chess are Daniel's two favorite forms of recreation. The kindergartner at Urbana's King School is going to have to grow if he wants to make an impact on the hardwood. When it comes to chess, Zhang is already a thinking man's version of a dunking and dribbling machine.
"He's very good," said Isaac Ekberg, president of the Parkland College chess team. "He really has a solid knowledge of what's happening on the board."
Daniel's youth and skill combine to make him the hottest thing going in the local chess community. He's good now, but seasoned chess players think he's only going to get better with age, practice and maturity.
How much better? Well, Daniel's cousins, to his delight, tease him about becoming a grand master, and veteran players think they might be on to something.
Daniel has been only playing chess since last fall, about the same time he started to learn English. His English is progressing almost as fast as his chess.
"When I'm home, I speak Chinese to my mom. When I'm at school, I speak English," said Daniel, explaining that only a handful of people at King speak Chinese.
Curious about chess after he arrived in the United States, Daniel was off and checkmating after his mother, Mia He, brought him some books about the game.
She is a visiting scholar in comparative literature at the University of Illinois. Daniel's father, who remains in China but will be coming here soon, is an engineer.
Daniel has other interests, including math and reading. But what he really likes is playing chess. His mother recalled one bad-weather day when he was forced to stay home. Daniel played chess against himself all day. His mother said she finally told him to take a break from the game and watch some cartoons.
Like most children his age, Daniel isn't given to extended conversations. But he said what he likes about chess is "thinking about chess."
He apparently thinks about it pretty hard.
Michael Augur, former president of the University of Illinois chess team, said he has coached and played against Daniel and finds his game "pretty incredible."
A playful child who stands in his chair and leans over the board as if preparing to pounce, Daniel looks as if his mind wanders while he waits for an opponent to move. His mother said she sometimes reminds him to stay focused.
But Augur, a chess master, said that Daniel may not be as distracted as he appears.
"I played a game with him, and afterward, he was able to replay the entire game from his memory," said Augur, a computer software engineer and master chess player. "I was absolutely blown away."
Chess has a big following locally, both inside and outside the school system.
Rachel Schechter, a local chess whiz and instructor, was recently named to the Illinois Chess Association Youth Committee to help serve and support chess in the local area.
Just a few weeks ago, Dr. William Gingold, a retired physician and psychologist, debuted the chess cafe, which is held from 2 to 4 p.m. Sundays at Lincoln Square.
Gingold, who at 77 runs Dr. G's Brainworks, said he has watched Daniel make excellent progress in both speaking English and playing chess.
"He's able to tell you three or four moves ahead what he plans to do," Dr. Gingold said.
Chess is a two-player strategy game played on a board checkered with 64 squares arranged in an eight-by-eight grid. It carries a cache of sophistication along with a patina of intellectual arrogance that lends itself to such phrases as, "He's playing chess while everyone else is playing checkers."
But the game has broad appeal, not only because of its myriad of complicated moves within an intellectually challenging environment. It also wins praise for the strategic thinking it instills in successful players and the confidence it inspires among those who learn the game.
Augur, who helped lead the UI team to Final Four competitions in 2013 and 2014, praised chess for its social, competitive and character-building aspects.
"Chess was a huge help when it came to me, being shy as a kid," he said.
It's not just for helping draw kids out of their shells. Cook County Sheriff Tom Dart implemented a inmate chess program at the Cook County Jail four years ago, not just for recreation but to help inmates learn to eschew impulsive decisions and embrace principles of strategic thinking they can use in real life.
That sort of thing is not on Daniel's agenda. But even as he's making his mark on chess, chess is making its mark on him. After defeating an opponent, he's quick to offer his hand in a congratulatory shake and politely ask if his opponent would like to try again.
Jim Dey, a member of The News-Gazette staff, can be reached at jdey@news-gazette.com or 217-351-5369.
Sections (2):News, LocalTopics (1):People
More Local
Asmussen: Custard Cup group leaves good taste
Two more swastikas found drawn in UI Armory
Urbana detectives turn to state crime lab for leads in 1988 stabbing
First up on retired federal judge's docket? A bit of golf
More Local
Asmussen: Custard Cup group leaves good taste
Two more swastikas found drawn in UI Armory
Urbana detectives turn to state crime lab for leads in 1988 stabbing
First up on retired federal judge's docket? A bit of golf
Comments
News-Gazette.com embraces discussion of both community and world issues. We welcome you to contribute your ideas, opinions and comments, but we ask that you avoid personal attacks, vulgarity and hate speech. We reserve the right to remove any comment at our discretion, and we will block repeat offenders' accounts. To post comments, you must first be a registered user, and your username will appear with any comment you post. Happy posting.
Login or register to post comments
Latest News
Area history, May 3, 2016
Asmussen: Custard Cup group leaves good taste
Danville driver reports vehicle invasion
First up on retired federal judge's docket? A bit of golf
Gannett gets tough in bid for Tribune
Suit: Starbucks overfills its cold drinks with ice
This day in history, May 3, 2016
Service Club of the Week: Twin Cities Knights of Columbus Council 891
Savoy census needs volunteers
Chicago State a flawed but final shot at a degree
More Local News
Most Viewed News
6 charged with dismemberment in Ashley Gibson case
Arraignment in dismemberment case
Mother of victim: 'I know these people'
UPDATE: Illini all-star team of investors buys Jarling's Custard Cup
Danville doctor's license suspended
Most Commented News
Chancellor OKs mascot search
F&S noose incident prompts probes
No end in sight for Rush's case
UPDATE: Badly injured dog showing 'resilience' (w/video)
Street closures listing
Trending Now
UPDATE: Illini all-star team of investors buys Jarling's Custard Cup
Danville doctor's license suspended
40 years for Champaign shooter
Chancellor OKs mascot search
Jury quick to find Kelley guilty
UI student arrested over LSD found in room
It's time to apologize to our teachers
6 charged with dismemberment in Ashley Gibson case
Arraignment in dismemberment case
Study: Carle among 10 most profitable hospitals
Dan Corkery: Do you know what's under your property?
Radio
Newstalk 1400 WDWS-AM
Lite Rock 97.5 WHMS-FM
Classic Hits 107.9 WKIO-FM
Print
County Star
The Independent News
The Leader
LeRoy Farmer City Press
Mahomet Citizen
Paxton Record
Journal Republican
Rantoul Press
Magazines
At Home Magazine
Central Illinois Business Magazine
Customer Service
Help
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Frequently Asked Questions
Subscription Information
Quick Links
eEdition
Obituaries
Submit Vacation Stop
Staff List
Pay your Subscription
Buy a Photo
Send a News Tip
Submit an Announcement
Start a subscription now to enjoy our award-winning local news and sports coverage. Print, digital, or both-- we've got you covered.
Subscribe
Connect with The News-Gazette
1995-2015 The News-Gazette, Inc. | All Rights Reserved | 15 Main St., Champaign, IL 61820