Place An Ad Now Submit A Story
Tuesday, May 3
My ACCOUNT E-EDITION My REWARDS SUBSCRIBE
Home
News
Sports
Life
Blogs
Obits
Photos
Videos
Ads
Autos
Jobs
Real Estate
GoGuide
Outdoor
Special Sections
Latest Headlines:
Palestine relief efforts under way Dallas police search for missing brothers, ages 9 and 10 Caddo area to see major flood again; officials urge evacuations Cleanup continues in East Texas after tornadoes Smith County man accused of string of burglaries arrested US Bobsled team looking for athletes; final combine tryouts in Houston this August U.S. troops move closer to the direct fight against Islamic State in Iraq Target boycott petition surpasses a million signatures and percent of people who would shop there drops
Home / US Bobsled team looking for athletes; final combine tryouts in Houston this August
US Bobsled team looking for athletes; final combine tryouts in Houston this August Published on Tuesday, 3 May 2016 07:21 - Written by
LAKE PLACID, N.Y. (AP) - USA Bobsled & Skeleton is looking for athletes and will be conducting combine events across the country.
Assistant coach Mike Dionne says summer recruiting will focus on luring elite athletes who believe "they have what it takes to represent their country at the highest level, and have dreams of competing for Olympic medals."
Nine events are on the combine schedule, starting with Park City, Utah on June 10. Also on the list are: Lake Placid, New York; Bradenton, Florida; Columbia, South Carolina; Gaithersburg, Maryland; Geneva, Ohio; Colorado Springs, Colorado; San Francisco; and the final one August 1 in Houston.
Historically, the team's medalists have come from a variety of sports, including track and field, football, and soccer.
Interested athletes can visit http://www.bobsledskeletonrecruiting.com for additional information. Email recruiting@usabs.com with questions.
Copyright 2016 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.
Recommended for You
Subscribe to Our Newsletters Keep up to date with the latest news
Manage Your Emails Here
About Us Questions Privacy Policy Terms Of Service Advertise With Us Contact Us Copyright Who We Are PLACE AN AD NOW
2016 TylerPaper.com/Tyler Morning Telegraph
410 W. Erwin St., Tyler, Texas 75702 All Rights Reserved