HomeMailSearchNewsSportsFinanceCelebrityWeatherAnswersFlickrMobileMorePoliticsMoviesMusicTVGroupsStyleBeautyTechShoppingAutosTry Yahoo Finance on Firefox
Skip to Navigation Skip to Main content Skip to Right rail
Sign In
Mail
Help
Account Info Help Suggestions
Follow Yahoo Finance
on Facebook
on Twitter
on Tumblr
Recent
% |
$
Quotes you view appear here for quick access.
Tip : Use comma (,) to separate multiple quotes. Learn more...
Finance Home
My Portfolio
My Quotes News
Market Data
Yahoo Originals
Business & Finance
Personal Finance
CNBC
Contributors
Recommended Games
More games
Compare Brokers
JSA's Telecom Exchange Announces Distinguished Line-Up of Industry Experts for CEO Roundtables at Upcoming NYC Event
CEO Roundtable Panels to Focus on IoT, Fiber Deficiency, Tech Consolidation and Feature Participants From Microsoft, AT&T, Bank Street, CenturyLink, Schneider Electric, RCR Wireless, Telecom Ramblings and More
Jaymie Scotto & Associates (JSA)
18 minutes ago
Content preferences
Done
MIDDLEBROOK, VA--(Marketwired - May 3, 2016) - Jaymie Scotto & Associates (JSA), the preeminent marketing, public relations and event-planning firm serving the telecommunications and technology industries, and founder and host of Telecom Exchange (TEX), the premier industry networking event where communications and technology meet, today announces its CEO Roundtable participants and topics for its upcoming TEX New York City event, taking place June 21 and 22, 2016 at Cipriani Wall Street. TEX will feature four "power hour" CEO Roundtables, providing an opportunity for key CEOs to share their predictions for tech and telecom's future and to participate in casual Q&A sessions moderated by industry analysts and journalists.
The first CEO Roundtable, "The Arrival of Internet of Things (IoT): 5G, Connected Devices, Data Volume and Business Opportunities," moderated by Jeff Mucci, Chief Executive Officer & Editorial Director, RCR Wireless News, will focus on the explosive growth of IoT, examine industry trends, predictions, and the opportunities and challenges that IoT brings to the global economy. Participants for this panel include Mobeen Kahn, Strategy & Product Management Executive, AT&T;James Martino, Chief Executive Officer, Avotus; Frank Rey, Director Global Network Acquisition Group, Microsoft; Tom Gilley, Founder & Principal, PicoStar; and Ryan Holmes, Founder & Chief Executive Officer, SpaceVR.
The second CEO Roundtable, "Fiber as an Investment -- Addressing North America's Fiber Deficiency," will be moderated by Robert Powell, Editor & Creator, Telecom Ramblings. The panel will examine and discuss fiber penetration in the U.S. and Canada, the worthiness of investing in fiber deployments, and determine if we are indeed moving fast enough, or if a stronger, more unified North American plan for fiber is needed. Panelists include Jonathan Martone, Director, Data Center Engineering, CenturyLink; Vincenzo 'Enzo' Clemente, President & Chief Executive Officer, Cross River Fiber; Al DiGabriele, Senior Vice President of Product Management & Marketing, Hibernia Networks; and Rob Barlow, Chief Executive Officer, WireIE. CEO Roundtable 3, "Wall Street vs. Network providers: Trends in Consolidating Critical Infrastructures," moderated by Richard Lukaj, Senior Managing Director, Bank Street, will review the marketplace trends and crossover influences of the convergence and consolidation of tower, cable, broadband fiber, data center and web/cloud infrastructure services. The discussion will also explore trends, opportunities and predictions for 2016-17, including Wall Street's reactions to the growing M&A and capital markets activity. Panelists include Cliff Kane, Co-Chief Executive Officer, Cleareon Fiber Networks; Erick Contag, Chief Operating Officer, GlobeNet; and Adrian Shatku, Chief Executive Officer, Unifi Communications.
The final CEO Roundtable, "What Tech Companies Need from Telecom Partners" will be moderated by Eric Hanselman, Chief Analyst, 451 Research, and welcomes panelists David Meredith, SVP Global Colocation Services, CenturyLink;Eric Troyer, Chief Marketing Officer, Megaport;Frank Rey, Director Global Network Acquisition, Microsoft;and Mark Hurley, Data Center Solution Architect, Schneider Electric. These panelists from top American web-centric companies will share their telecom 'pain points' and will define where they see new growth opportunities moving forward. Telecom Exchange NYC will be held on June 21-22, 2016 at Cipriani Wall Street. TEX exhibit space is selling out at record pace with over 70% of the exhibit tables now sold. Exhibit tables are available on a first-come, first-serve basis; and there are a limited number of sponsorship packages available. For more information, email info@thetelecomexchange.com.
About JSA Celebrating more than a decade of success, Jaymie Scotto & Associates (JSA) is the preeminent provider of Public Relations, Marketing and Event Planning services for the tech and telecom industries.Awarded 'Most Outstanding Telecoms PR Agency' by LiveWire for 2015 & 2016, our success is attributed to our skilled JSA team, innovative tools, and established media and industry relationships,allowing us to deliver the finest outreach and brand awareness services available -- with measurable return on investment.
Our clients enjoy 'insider access' to the top reporters, bloggers, analysts and thought leaders shaping tech and telecom -- as well as critical networking opportunities, including JSA's own industry networking event, The Telecom Exchange. We also feature client and marketplace news via JSA TV (our video newsroom on YouTube), JSA Radio (our podcast channel on iHeartRadio), Virtual CEO Roundtables (our monthly panel discussions with top thought leaders),Telecom News & Trends (our video newsletter) and Telecom News Now (our industry blog). To learn more about how JSA can elevate your brand, visit www.jaymiescotto.com. Join the conversation: Follow JSA on LinkedIn and Twitter. Embedded Video Available: http://www2.marketwire.com/mw/frame_mw?attachid=3001605Chief Executive Officer
Contact:
For media inquiries, please contact: Jaymie Scotto & Associates (JSA)+1 866.695.3629Email Contact
Click to view comments
View Comments (0)
Share this
Must Watch
What to read next
Play
Munger: Donald Trump's behavior reflects a 'form of sickness'
Here's the cool Berkshire Hathaway stuff you can buy at the annual mee Sponsored Yahoo Finance
Play
The Saudis may know something about oil the rest of us dont
Play
Uber is just the tip of the iceberg: The gig economy is leveraging the
Play
We're not getting back to all-time highs any time soon: trader
7 ways the Berkshire Hathaway meeting is like Hogwarts Sponsored Yahoo Finance
Play
Warren Buffett defends his appetite for junk food
Play
Buffett's problem with negative rates
Sidekick More Market News
03:59
Play
China Is Biggest Excess Mankind Has Seen: Felix Zulauf 03:59
Life-saving Antibiotics Could Be Hidden in Caves Sponsored Bloomberg Video
02:45
Play
AIG Reports Third-Straight Loss on Hedge Fund Declines 02:45
01:37
Play
We Hope Brexit Voters Will be Rational, Says Moretti 01:37
01:40
Play
Profit pain for more European banks 01:40
Olympic torch arrives in Brazil Sponsored Reuters Videos
03:32
Play
How In Control are Central Banks with FX, Growth? 03:32
01:16
Play
Leicester City: EPL Soccer's Unlikely Champions 01:16
Sidekick FP Today
00:00
Play
Internships with the best pay and perks 00:00
Australian man says he's Bitcoin inventor Sponsored
Famous investor's big bet on Yelp
Marines investigate claim about Iwo Jima photo
Sidekick top story
Wall Street braces for another down day as dollar weakens
McDonald's Breakfast Push Sets Off Morning Scramble in Fast Food Sponsored Bloomberg
Trump hopes to land decisive blow in Indiana showdown with Cruz
Play
UBS hit by 'double whammy' of low interest rates and regulatio
Pfizer revenue beats on Hospira acquisition
France threatens 'no' to US-EU trade zone, amid new tensions Sponsored Associated Press
Halliburton adjusted profit beats estimate, helped by cost cuts
Oil drops as higher output stokes concern over supply glut
Copyright
2016 <a href=http://www.marketwired.com/>Marketwire</a> L.P. All rights reserved. All the news releases provided by Marketwired are copyrighted. Any forms of copying other than an individual user's personal reference without express written permission is prohibited. Further distribution of these materials is strictly forbidden, including but not limited to, posting, emailing, faxing, archiving in a public database, redistributing via a computer network or in a printed form.
Data Disclaimer
Help / Suggestions
Privacy
About Our Ads
Terms