Sign In
Register
Home
Archives
Blogs
Americans pick the best and worst U.S. hotel chains
Celebrities with exotic pets
Internet trolls attack Old Navy's interracial ad
The gun-toting women of the Mexican drug cartels
Local
Weather
Traffic
Politics
Joel Connelly
Marijuana
Science
Environment
Obituaries
Crime
City says 23 property owners broke fair housing laws
Viageddon continues: Bertha under viaduct, traffic not completely
Bertha inches ahead, viaduct closure begins, traffic slows
Police: Dad busts peeper at Sea-Tac Airport bathroom
US & World
Crime
U.S.
Washington D.C.
Asia
Africa
Middle East
Europe
Latin America/Carribean
Canada
Odd News
Anti-abortion activist goes to trial over letter to doctor
Teacher sick-outs close most Detroit schools for a 2nd day
10 Things to Know for Today
Funeral will honor 6 of 8 victims in Ohio family shootings
Business
Boeing/Aerospace
Microsoft/Tech
Press Releases
Sponsored Content
CVS Health tops Street 1Q forecasts
American International Group posts 1Q loss
INSIDE WASHINGTON: Ag groups seek exemption from scrutiny
US consumer sentiment slips in April
Sports
Seahawks/NFL
Mariners/MLB
Sounders/Soccer
Huskies/Cougars
Jim Moore
More Sports
Seahawks players won't wear No. 24 to honor Marshawn Lynch
Seahawks receive mostly positive marks for NFL draft
Veteran NFL insider grades every team in the NFL draft
QB Trevone Boykin highlights Hawks' undrafted free agents
A&E
Events
Movies
TV
Music
Restaurants
Books
Theater/Arts
Celebrities
Kate Upton debuts engagement ring at Met Gala
Boxer Shane Mosley rescues baby from burning car
Report: Kerry Washington pregnant with second child
Police search Princes local pharmacy
Life
Home & Garden
Health
Food & Dining
Advice
Reader Blogs
Pets
Sponsored Content
Horoscopes
Visitors Guide
Newest hot swim fashions out of Brazil
Carolyn Hax: She's addicted to her phone
The 5 most talked-about moments from this week's 'Game of
2016 has been a bad year for celebrity deaths but not the worst
Travel
Comics
Comics Kingdom
Trivia
Play Four
Puzzles
Comics: Funky Winkerbean, Zits, The Phantom and more
Puzzles: Sudoku, Crossword, Kakuro and more
Trivia
Play Four
Photos
Education
Real Estate
MenuSections
http://www.seattlepi.com/sports/article/PHOTOS-Leicester-joins-pantheon-of-major-7389703.php
PHOTOS: Leicester joins pantheon of major sporting upsets
Pan Pylas, Associated Press
Updated 5:00am, Tuesday, May 3, 2016
Photo: Martin Rickett, AP
Image 1of/8
CaptionClose
Image 1 of 8
Leicester City's Wes Morgan celebrates scoring his side's first goal of the game, during the English Premier League soccer match between Manchester United and Leicester City, at Old Trafford, in Manchester, England, Sunday May 1, 2016. (Martin Rickett/PA via AP) UNITED KINGDOM OUT less
Leicester City's Wes Morgan celebrates scoring his side's first goal of the game, during the English Premier League soccer match between Manchester United and Leicester City, at Old Trafford, in Manchester, ... more
Photo: Martin Rickett, AP
Image 2 of 8
FILE - In this Sunday, July 4, 2004 file photo Georgios Karagounis, left, and Theodoros Zagorakis of Greece run with the trophy after their team's 1-0 victory over Portugal in the Euro 2004 soccer championship final at the Luz stadium in Lisbon, Portugal. English soccer club Leicester City's achievement of winning the Premier League has drawn comparisons with other upsets in sporting history including Greece's victory at Euro 2004. less
FILE - In this Sunday, July 4, 2004 file photo Georgios Karagounis, left, and Theodoros Zagorakis of Greece run with the trophy after their team's 1-0 victory over Portugal in the Euro 2004 soccer championship ... more
Photo: Dusan Vranic, AP
Image 3 of 8
FILE - In this July 1, 1985 file photo, Boris Becker, of West Germany, dives to make a return from his opponent Joakim Nystrom, of
Sweden, in the men's singles third round play at the All England Lawn Tennis Championships in Wimbledon, London. English soccer team Leicester City's achievement of winning the Premier League has drawn comparisons with other upsets in sporting history including Becker's victory as a 17-year-old at Wimbledon in 1985. less
FILE - In this July 1, 1985 file photo, Boris Becker, of West Germany, dives to make a return from his opponent Joakim Nystrom, of
Sweden, in the men's singles third round play at the All England Lawn Tennis ... more
Photo: John Redman, AP
Image 4 of 8
FILE - In this
Sept. 10,1972 file photo, Soviet Union basketball team player, Aleksandr Belov scores the winning basket to push his team past the United States 51-50 during the summer Olympics in Munich.
English soccer team Leicester City's achievement of winning the Premier League has drawn comparisons with other upsets in sporting history including the Soviet Union's last-gasp win against the U.S. at the Olympics of 1972. less
FILE - In this
Sept. 10,1972 file photo, Soviet Union basketball team player, Aleksandr Belov scores the winning basket to push his team past the United States 51-50 during the summer Olympics in Munich. ... more
Photo: AP
Image 5 of 8
File - In this Feb. 22, 1980 file photo, the U.S ice hockey team rushes toward goalie Jim Craig after their upset win over the Soviet Union in the final group stage of the
Winter Olympic Games in Lake Placid, N.Y.
English soccer team Leicester City's achievement of winning the Premier League has drawn comparisons with other upsets in sporting history including the U.S's victory over the Soviet Union at the 1980 Winter Olympic Games. less
File - In this Feb. 22, 1980 file photo, the U.S ice hockey team rushes toward goalie Jim Craig after their upset win over the Soviet Union in the final group stage of the
Winter Olympic Games in Lake Placid, ... more
Photo: AP
Image 6 of 8
FILE - In this Sunday, Feb. 11, 1990 file photo, James "Buster" Douglas, stands over Mike Tyson who fell on his back after taking a series of blows in the 10th round of their world heavyweight title fight in Tokyo . English soccer team Leicester City's achievement of winning the Premier League has drawn comparisons with other upsets in sporting history including Douglas' shock defeat of Tyson. less
FILE - In this Sunday, Feb. 11, 1990 file photo, James "Buster" Douglas, stands over Mike Tyson who fell on his back after taking a series of blows in the 10th round of their world heavyweight title fight in ... more
Photo: Tsugufumi Matsumoto, AP
Image 7 of 8
FILE - In this Saturday, Sept. 19, 2015 file photo, Japan teammates celebrate with the crowd after defeating South Africa 32-34 in the Rugby World Cup Pool B match at the Brighton Community Stadium, Brighton, England. English soccer team Leicester City's achievement of winning the Premier League has drawn comparisons with other upsets in sporting history including Japan's victory over South Africa at the 2015 Rugby World Cup. less
FILE - In this Saturday, Sept. 19, 2015 file photo, Japan teammates celebrate with the crowd after defeating South Africa 32-34 in the Rugby World Cup Pool B match at the Brighton Community Stadium, Brighton, ... more
Photo: Tim Ireland, AP
Image 8 of 8
PHOTOS: Leicester joins pantheon of major sporting upsets
1/8
Back to Gallery
LONDON (AP)
Leicester's achievement of winning the Premier League title is one of the most unlikely of sporting achievements and stands in comparison with some of the great upsets in sports history.The prospect of Leicester being champion was something few predicted a year ago when the team was scrapping to avoid relegation from the Premier League. Leicester's previous best finish in England's top soccer league was second in 1928-29.
At the start of this season, some bookmakers offered odds of 5000-1 on Leicester winning the title.Here, The Associated Press looks back at some other memorable sporting surprises:___GREECE AT EURO 2004Greece's previous appearance at a major soccer tournament, the 1994 World Cup in the United States, ended horribly. The team returned home after losing all three games, scoring no goals and conceding 10. But none of its opponents at the 2004 European Championship proved capable of breaking Greece down. The Greeks won their three knockout matches, including the final against host Portugal, by the same scoreline, 1-0, playing a defensive and counter-attacking style that coach Otto Rehhagel had instilled in his team.___BECKER WINS WIMBLEDONIn 1985 at Wimbledon, Boris Becker won his first title at the All England Club. At 17 years and 227 days, he became the youngest Grand Slam champion. He was even younger than the Wimbledon junior champion that year. Becker was also the first German to win Wimbledon and the first unseeded player to lift the trophy. Overall, Becker made the Wimbledon final seven times, winning three.___SOVIET UNION VS. UNITED STATESOne of the great rivalries in sports also delivered some huge shocks. In 1972, the Soviet Union basketball team beat the Americans in the gold medal game at the Munich Olympics. There was controversy at the end and allegations of cheating, but the result meant the United States men's basketball team lost for the first time at the Olympics. Eight years later in Lake Placid, the U.S. hockey team won the gold medal, beating the seemingly invincible Soviets in the final group stage in the "The Miracle On Ice."___BUSTER KO'S TYSONFew gave James "Buster" Douglas a chance when he flew to Tokyo in 1990 to take on Mike Tyson, one of the most dominant world heavyweight champions in history. Yet Douglas was in no mood to join the list of those felled by Tyson, and eventually won in the 10th round with a knockout. Douglas' reign didn't last long, losing later that year to Evander Holyfield. And although Tyson did become world champion again, he was never quite the same.___RUGBY'S BIG SHOCKJapan was rated 1,000-1 to win last year's Rugby World Cup. It's only win in tournament history was in 1991. The opener was against South Africa, the two-time champion the Japanese had never previously met. Then they went toe-to-toe with the Springboks, who led into injury time. The Japanese turned down a potential tying penalty kick, and went for a try. They pulled it off, and the biggest shock in rugby history.
Most Popular
1
9 arrested, 5 police injured: Another May Day in Seattle
2
Missing boy, 6, found dead near Big Four Ice Caves
3
Carolyn Hax: I want kids but don't want to be 'Mommy'
4
Sinkhole opens near Sound Transit tunnel in Ravenna
5
Hansen's Sodo arena project suffers huge loss in City Council...
6
QB Trevone Boykin highlights Seahawks' undrafted free agents,...
7
Carolyn Hax: She's addicted to her phone
View Comments
2016 Hearst Communications, Inc.
Logo
Return to Top
About
Our Company
Careers
Advertising
Ad Choices
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Your California Privacy Rights
Contact
Newsroom Contacts
Connect
Newsletters
Facebook
Twitter
Google+
Instagram
Hearst Newspapers
Copyright
Hearst Seattle Media, LLC