Home
Live Show & Chat
Nicoles Show
Archives
Video Archives
Audio Archives
Laffys Place
TheLiberal.Media
Homework
Support Us!
About/Contact/Pix
Contact
About Nicole Sandler
About GottaLaff
Nicole & Alisons Adoption Story
Nicoles Pictures
Privacy Policy
Randi Rhodes!
Where to?Home
Live Show & Chat
Nicole's Show
Archives
Video Archives
Audio Archives
Laffy's Place
TheLiberal.Media
Homework
Support Us!
About/Contact/Pix
Contact
About Nicole Sandler
About GottaLaff
Nicole & Alison's Adoption Story
Nicole's Pictures
Privacy Policy
Randi Rhodes!
5-3-16 Quick Morning News
3 May, 2016Published by
nicole in Homework, News
share liberally...700
Victoria Jones created and edits Quick Morning News. She is chief White House correspondent with Washington DC-basedTalk Media News,where her insight and analysis are made available to over 400 news talk radio stations around the country and internationally.
Quick News
Trump: Theyre finished
Democrats: Close fight in Indiana
Cruz confronts Trump voter: Epic
Obama takes SCOTUS fight to GOP
Obama to Flint Wed: Drink Water? No plans
Religious freedom undersustained assault
Kerry: Syria in many ways out of control
Trump: Theyre Finished (Politico, NYT, LAT, AP, me)
Donald Trump is done with these primaries. Campaigning in Carmel, Indiana, on Monday, the day before todays primary, Trump said, If we win Indiana its over. Its over. Theyre finished. Theyre finished. Theyre gone. The RealClearPolitics polling average puts rival Ted Cruz behind Trump by more than 9 percentage points (his most annoying trait? repeating himself)
Of Indianas 57 delegates, a full 30 go to the statewide winner. The other 27 are allotted three at a time to the winner of each of Indianas nine congressional districts. Trump needs only 241 more delegates to guarantee hell come to the Republican convention with a majority. He comes into the contest with 996 delegates bound to him on the first ballot (no more Cruzing)
Cruz hinted at an exit strategy Monday, even as he vowed to compete to the end. I am in for the distance
as long as we have a viable path to victory, Cruz told reporters. Like Gov John Kasich (R-Ohio), Cruz is already mathematically eliminated from reaching a delegate majority before the July convention (better known as TrumpFestMania16)
Cruz spent part of the weekend campaigning in California, which votes 7 June, and collected the endorsement of Gov Pete Wilson (R), who warned that Trump would doom the party as its nominee, but Wilson conceded in an interview Monday that to win in California, the first thing he [Cruz] needs to do is win in Indiana. (shortest known endorsement in history)
Trump, meanwhile, was moving on to Hillary Clinton. Im going to start focusing on Hillary. Thats going to be so easy. Its going to be so great, he said in Carmel. Earlier, Trump ate lunch with Ed Klein, the author of books that repeat salacious allegations (lies, actually) against Bill and Hillary Clinton (so guess what that campaign might look like
gutter innuendo, gossip)
Some 84% of voters said Donald Trump will likely win the Republican Partys nomination, while 85% said Hillary Clinton will win the Democratic Partys nomination, according to a CNN/ORC national poll released Monday (Politico)
Democrats: Close Race in Indiana (NYT, NYT, me)
Polls suggest that Hillary Clinton is in a close fight for Indiana today with Sen Bernie Sanders (I-Vt). Sanderss populist message has broken through in several other states in the industrial heartland, including neighboring Michigan, and he could score an upset (Clinton campaign has invested in human-sized Off! to try to deal with Sanders at this point)
Addressing a riled-up crowd in Evansville, Ind, on Monday, Sanders took aim at the billionaire class, prompting a supporter to shout out that the superrich should fu*k off! Laughing, Sanders replied that he was constrained from using such language. You get to the point very succinctly. I like it.
Meanwhile Clinton campaigned in coal country
and had her feet held to the fire. In Williamson, WVa, a crowd of protesters held Donald Trump signs and chanted Go home! (dont think she won any votes
but she got some points for playing Twister)
&&&
Bo Copley, a 39-year-old father who lost his job in the coal industry, raised an issue with Clinton that appeared to be on many peoples minds: a remark she made to CNN in March, Were going to put a lot of coal miners and coal companies out of business. How could she say that and now say she wanted to help West Virginians? he asked (were all ears)
Clinton told Copley that her statement was totally taken out of context and explained that she had presented a plan to help coal country last summer and was committed to the issue. I didnt mean that we were going to do it, but rather that was going to happen if we dont take action. (might have meant that
but shell never be able to do mop up on aisle three on that one)
But, Clinton added, I dont mind anybody being upset or angry, given the desperation in Appalachia, where she will spend today. (points for masochism) At one point, Sen Joe Manchin (D-WVa) stepped in on Clintons behalf: If I thought she wanted to eliminate one job in West Virginia, I wouldnt be sitting here, he told his constituents
Cruz Confronts Trump Voter: Epic (NYT, me)
Ted Cruz was headed to a waiting car in Marion, Ind, Monday. A half-dozen Donald Trump protesters were waiting, exchanging insults with Cruz supporters. Then Cruz did something unusual: He crossed the street. What do you like about Donald Trump? he asked a Trump follower (this story needs nooo commentary
but)
Everything, said a man in sunglasses, who later refused to give his name. (cant imagine why) When the protester mentioned the Second Amendment, Cruz said he had defended gun rights in front of the Supreme Court. The man appeared unimpressed. (if hed sold Cruz Steaks, well, maybe) Sporadic calls of Lyin Ted from the crowd
Man: immigration. Cruz: May I ask you something? Out of all the candidates, name one who had a million-dollar judgment against them for hiring illegal immigrants. Name one. Donald Trump. Man: Self-funding. OK, Cruz said, so you like rich people who buy politicians? Aaaand so it went on with more Lyin Ted shout-outs from the crowd
Sir, with all respect, Cruz said, Donald Trump is deceiving you. He is playing you for a chump. (win friends with that line?) If I were Donald Trump, I wouldnt have come over and talked to you. You know what I would have done? I would have told the folks over there, Go over and punch those guys in the face. Thats what Donald does to protesters. Crowd catcalls of Lyin Ted
OK, stop, Cruz said. What word did I say that was a lie? Man: About Donald telling people to punch people. (how could he not know? oh! Trump follower) Cruz: Just go home and Google Donald-punched-in-the-face-protester. This is on national television. Man: Youll find out tomorrow. Indiana doesnt want you. (likely true, Mr Man)
Cruz turned to the cameras, as if making a closing argument in court. A question here that everyone should ask, he began Are you Canadian? the man interjected. Do you want your kids, Cruz continued, repeating the words of Donald Trump? (asked and answered, counselor)
Obama Takes SCOTUS Fight to GOP (Reuters, me)
President Obama on Monday conducted interviews with local TV anchors from the home states of seven Republican senators up for reelection in November. Why? He was hammering home the argument that his pick for the Supreme Court, Judge Merrick Garland, should be given a hearing and vote by GOP senators (cant stop, wont stop pushing it)
What my argument is: Let the American people see Judge Garland, let him answer questions, let them hear his responses, Obama told WDAT-TV in Kansas City, Mo, a market that straddles states where Sens Roy Blunt (R-Mo) and Jerry Moran (R-Kan) are up for reelection (efficient)
Republican leaders wont budge and say that Obamas successor should fill the vacancy left by Febs death of conservative Justice Antonin Scalia. Republicans hope their party wins the presidency and can make the appointment. (only about the direction of the court
everything else were told is rubbish) The court is now split 4-4 between conservatives and liberals
Obama told WMUR, Manchester, NH: I know that folks like Sen [Kelly] Ayotte met with him and the fact that theyre not calling a hearing or vote means theyre not doing their job. Ayotte is in a tight reelection race. In a separate WMUR interview, Ayotte said, to have the people weigh in the election in November is important considering we have a 4-4 court. (2008? 2012?)
Obama also spoke with a TV anchor from Iowa, home to Senate Judiciary Committee chair Chuck Grassley, who helped lead efforts to block Garland. (polls show its hurting him) Obama also spoke with Ohio
Sen Rob Portman has a tight race; Wisconsin
Sen Ron Johnson is running; and Phoenix
home to Sen John McCain (R-Ariz) (tight race also)
Obama to Flint Wed: Drink Water? No Plans (Hill, me)
President Obama is visiting Flint, Mich, on Wednesday, but: Im not aware of any photo ops that involve the presidents consumption of the water, WH spox Josh Earnest told reporters Monday. Lots of pressure on Michigan pols to drink the water to prove that cleanup efforts have been successful in removing lead from the water supply (or watch them choke)
Gov Rick Snyder (R) drinks Flint water on days that hes in the state. Earnest stressed that the EPA has deemed that properly filtered water in Flint is safe to drink. (is Josh going to chug it on Wednesday if he goes?) Snyder and the WH have sometimes clashed over the response to the Flint water crisis
Monday, Snyder said he has formally asked for a meeting with Obama on Wednesday. He disputed a report that he was too busy to meet with Obama, saying he had said last week that he had a full schedule because he didnt want to be the one confirming Obamas trip before it was officially announced by the WH (doesnt even make sense
he lied to avoid confirming? please)
Earnest said Snyder had been invited to greet Obama on the tarmac but wouldnt commit to a presidential meeting, saying the schedule is still being put together. I guess his schedule got a little freed up, huh, Earnest said of the governor. Were obviously pleased that he will now be in Flint on that day.
Obama is due to receive a briefing on the federal effort to assist in the cleanup and to hear directly (ie earful) from Flint residents about the toll the contamination has had on their health and their lives. Lead leached from old untreated pipes after the city began using Flint River water while under state management. The city has switched back
but the problem isnt solved
Religious Freedom UnderSustained Assault (Hill, WashTimes, me)
Religious freedom has been under serious and sustained assault around the world over the past year, the U.S. govt said Monday. The annual report by the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom faulted North Korea, Iran and Sudan, but it also criticized Egypt, Cuba and Vietnam, among other countries
The Obama admin made headlines when it officially declared last month that ISIS has carried out genocide against religious and ethnic minority groups under its control. But Mondays report also criticized the govt of Iraqi PM al Abadi for turning a blind eye to religion-related atrocities carried out by Shiite Muslim militants in the nation
Egypt has failed to prosecute those responsible for sectarian violence in recent years, particularly violence that was carried out against Coptic Christians in 2013. Separately, while improvements have been made in the decades since the Vietnam War, the report says Hanoi continues to control nearly all religious activities in the nation
In Iran, religious freedom is deteriorating, according to the report. Religious minorities in Iran are subject to arrest, torture and even execution based primarily or entirely upon the religion of the accused. Irans largest non-Muslim religious minority, the Bahai community, viewed as heretical, long has been subject to particularly severe religious freedom violations.
The report called on the State Dept to add eight nations to its existing list of countries of particular concern. Nine are already on the list: Burma, China, Eritrea, Iran, North Korea, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. Recommended they stay and add: Egypt, Vietnam, Iraq, Nigeria, Pakistan, Syria, Tajikistan and the Central African Republic
Kerry: Syria In Many Ways Out of Control (BBC, me)
SecState John Kerry said in Geneva Monday the Syrian conflict is in many ways out of control and deeply disturbing, as he made a fresh push to salvage a fragile truce. After talks with UN and Arab diplomats, he said progress had been made on a plan to reduce violence in the second city of Aleppo
more work needed, and no guarantee of success (ie prepare to fail)
A cessation of hostilities has reduced fighting in Syrias civil war but has unraveled in recent days. About 250 people have been killed in Aleppo in the past nine days. Monday, fresh govt air strikes and artillery attacks on rebel-held districts and suburbs of Aleppo left at least three dead, according to activists. Fighting and govt shelling erupted east of Damascus overnight today
Kerry said the goal was to reinforce a broad truce that could withstand further tests. He also promised more ceasefire monitors to track violations 24 hours a day, seven days a week. UN special envoy Staffan de Mistura is due to travel to Russia today
Kerry spoke by telephone with his Russian counterpart, Sergei Lavrov. Both men reiterated calls for all sides to observe the cessation of hostilities, the Russian foreign ministry said. Kerry said he would press rebel groups in Aleppo to separate themselves from the powerful jihadist group, al Nusra front, which is affiliated with al Qaeda
The Syrian govt and Russia have said the Aleppo air strikes are only targeting al Nusra, excluded from the cessation of hostilities. The U.S. and the opposition have dismissed the claim. Also in Geneva, Saudi FM al-Jubeir on Monday called the air strikes an outrage and a crime, adding that President Assad would either be removed from power through political process or force
Get it fast. Sign up here for Quick Morning News
__________________Victoria Jones
Editor
share liberally...700
tags:Cruz, Dems, Flint, Indiana, religious freedom, SCOTUS, Trump
Need a laugh? Time for Another Stand-Up Political Comedy Blog
Listen to the RoN 24/7 Stream Listen live Mon-Fri 10am-noon ET for the live show, or to the 24/7 audio stream any time. Just click the play button!
Archives Archives
Select Month
May 2016
April 2016
March 2016
February 2016
January 2016
December 2015
November 2015
October 2015
September 2015
August 2015
July 2015
June 2015
May 2015
April 2015
March 2015
February 2015
January 2015
December 2014
November 2014
October 2014
September 2014
August 2014
July 2014
June 2014
May 2014
April 2014
March 2014
February 2014
January 2014
December 2013
November 2013
October 2013
September 2013
August 2013
July 2013
June 2013
May 2013
April 2013
March 2013
February 2013
January 2013
December 2012
November 2012
October 2012
September 2012
August 2012
July 2012
June 2012
May 2012
April 2012
March 2012
February 2012
January 2012
December 2011
November 2011
October 2011
September 2011
August 2011
July 2011
June 2011
May 2011
April 2011
March 2011
February 2011
January 2011
December 2010
November 2010
October 2010
September 2010
August 2010
July 2010
June 2010
May 2010
April 2010
March 2010
February 2010
January 2010
December 2009
November 2009
October 2009
September 2009
August 2009
July 2009
June 2009
May 2009
April 2009
March 2009
February 2009
January 2009
December 2008
November 2008
October 2008
September 2008
August 2008
September 2006
August 2006
May 2006
April 2006
December 2005
November 2005
Get the Podcast via iTunes Subscribe to the podcast via iTunes:
Podcast Apps Listen via Stitcher
________________________
Get the iPod app
The iPod App is available from the App Store
___________________________________
Get the Android App
2016 Radio Or Not
Go back to top