Site
1999-Present
1888-1999
e-edition
|
subscription services
|
find n save
|
newsletter
CLASSIFIEDS
JOBS
cars
HOMES
FEATURED
NEWS NOW
Carolyn Hax: Set a time to call chatterbox aunt
...
Annies Mailbox: Stay watchful of moms abusive boyfriend
...
Rockford aldermen recommend $2.7M loan guarantee to renovate Cliffbreakers Riverside Hotel and Conference Center
...
Carolyn Hax: Set a time to call chatterbox aunt
...
Annies Mailbox: Stay watchful of moms abusive boyfriend
...
Rockford aldermen recommend $2.7M loan guarantee to renovate Cliffbreakers Riverside Hotel and Conference Center
...
Rockford aldermen recommend $2.7M loan guarantee to renovate Cliffbreakers Riverside Hotel and Conference Center
Comment
By Brittany KeepermanStaff writer
Rockford Register Star
By Brittany KeepermanStaff writer
Posted May. 2, 2016 at 10:21 PM
Updated at 10:37 PM
By Brittany KeepermanStaff writer
Posted May 2, 2016 at 10:21 PM
Updated at 10:37 PM
RELATED CONTENT
Cliffbreakers loan could help Rockford hotel shortage
Essex makeover could attract residential, retail and medical offices to Rockford's North...
Plants are key to Rockford adult store's zoning permit
Cliffbreakers clears bankruptcy, renovates
ROCKFORD
A sprawling hotel and conference center on the west bank of the Rock River moved a step closer toward a major renovation tonight after a City Council panel gave the plan a thumbs up.The Planning and Development Committee recommended that the city guarantee a $2.7 million loan to Cliffbreakers Riverside Hotel and Conference center so it can renovate.Cliffbreakers lost its luster in recent years amid struggles with bankruptcy, management woes and poor reviews. Decks overlooking the Rock River need repairs and 10 to 15 of the 105 hotel rooms are uninhabitable.The U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development has granted Aires Capital Management
a company that recently took control of the property
a $2.7 million loan that requires the city to guarantee the note with its Community Development Block Grant.Members of the Planning and Development Committee recommended approval, though some questioned the hotel owner's ability to turn around Cliffbreakers' reputation.A big part of Cliffbreakers business wasnt renting hotel rooms, said Ald. Venita Hervey, D-5. It was the banquets and the weddings. That has been disastrous. Whats the plan to rehabilitate that image?Aires will oversee the renovation and execute a new marketing plan for the riverfront property. The Chicago-based company has already invested money in the project but cant get much further without the loan, said Aires Capital Management Chairman Neil Freeman.Since we took over six months ago, service is improving, he said. But we do need the loan to get the space to where it should be.
The property is in need of support.If the property were brought back up to market standards, it would bring in extra hotel-motel revenue for the city and help keep visitor spending in the city when large events take place. But some alderman remained concerned about a return on investment and sustained operations.Proceeds of the loan will allow Aires to pay construction costs. Additionally, it will allow the company to cover interest and legal fees and provide capital for operating expenses, which bothered Ald. Frank Beach, R-10 and Ald. Kevin Frost, R-4.But investment in northwest Rockford is important and the impact of a Cliffbreakers makeover will be even greater once a rebuild of the North Main Street corridor is complete, said Ald. Karen Elyea, D-11.I think that side of town is going to open up, she said. It will be rife with opportunity for economic development.In other business, the City Council approved a plan to install sidewalks and replace crumbling segments of sidewalks along a walking school bus route to Lewis Lemon Elementary School. The city and Rockford Corridor Improvement will each contribute $50,000 for sidewalk improvements. Sidewalks will be replaced along Andrews Street from North Avon Street to North Central Avenue; along Central between Andrews and Mulberry streets; and on Mulberry between Central and Lewis Lemon School.Page 2 of 2 - Aldermen also approved a resolution to explore the feasibility of creating a tax increment finance district to help redevelop the former Essex Wire property in the 2800 block of North Main Street. A development firm has proposed replacing the factory with a mixed-use community of 240 rental units, along with stores, medical offices and businesses catering to everyone from seniors to young professionals. The developer will pay for the feasibility study and could be reimbursed for that expense if a TIF district is eventually created.Also, Secrets Apparel and Gifts
an adult-oriented store at 280 N. Phelps Ave.
will remain in business after aldermen approved a special-use permit for the 3,900-square-foot storefront it occupies on the condition that the building owner plants trees to create "visual screening," a zoning requirement that the city calls a "Type B Buffer."Brittany Keeperman: 815-987-1395; bkeeperman@rrstar.com; @BKeeperman
By Brittany KeepermanStaff writer
Rockford Register Star
By Brittany KeepermanStaff writer
Posted May. 2, 2016 at 10:21 PM
Updated at 10:37 PM
Comment or view comments
Terms of Service
rrstar.com
Rockford Directory
Featured Businesses
Loading...
Business Name
addressLocation, ST | website.com
Find Rockford Attractions
Bars
Restaurants
Beauty Salons
Entertainment
Doctors
Medical Specialists
Contractors
Education
Lawn Services
Lawyers
Shopping
Travel
Tanning
Used Cars
Wedding Services
Add your business here +
Events Calendar
Connect with Rockford Register Star
Facebook
Twitter
RSS
Back to top
Site Services
Contact Us
Subscriber Services
Place an Ad
Buy a photo reprint
Newspaper Archives
Weddings
Engagements
Anniversaries
Work For Us
Your Town
Belvidere
Boone County
Cherry Valley
Loves Park
Machesney Park
Your Town
Rockford
Rockton
Roscoe
South Beloit
Winnebago County
Submit content
Calendar listing
Letter to the Editor
Press release
News tip
Propel Marketing
More Content Now
Find&Save
Mobile Site
Stay Informed
Email newsletter
Sign Up Today
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
Copyright 2006-2016 Gatehouse Media, LLC Some rights reservedPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service|Gatehouse Media Publications
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted. Rockford Register Star | 99 E. State St., Rockford, IL 61104