Jump to main content
News
Sport
Weather forecast
Mobile site
E-Newsletters
News feed
Site map
Register
Log in
Chop House off to meaty start (From This Is Wiltshire)
Search:
News
Sport
Leisure
Info
Your Say
Business
Community
Announcements
Advertise
Click2find
Buy & Sell
Dating
Cars
Homes
Jobs
Royal Wedding
Elections
Latest News
National News
Swindon Advertiser
Gazette & Herald
Wiltshire Times
Salisbury Journal
Archive
This Is Wiltshire
RSS Feed
Chop House off to meaty start
Updated 1:14pm Tuesday 3rd May 2016 in
By Gill Harris
Reporter GILL HARRIS samples organic farmer Helen Brownings produce at a packed new restaurant that offers no-fuss dining
A HUNGER pang of excitement rumbled around food lovers in Swindon when it was announced that Helen Browning was coming to town.
Yes
that Helen Browning. She of organic produce fame and the wonderful Royal Oak at Bishopstone. Here, in Swindon.
The Chop House on Wood Street has taken over the erstwhile Bistro Les Chats for a period. But something tells me theyre here to stay, if our experience last Thursday night is anything to go by.
My friend and I arrived to a bustling atmosphere and a staff member apologising that the only table for two left was one of those high tables with tall stools. Not being very tall myself, theyre not my favourite things as you have to jump up, shuffle to get the stool in the right place and then youre pretty much stranded. But the staff kindly moved us to a normal table as soon as it became available.
Tim Finney, Helen Brownings partner, said ahead of the launch that this was going to be no-fuss, meat-based dining
and he wasnt fibbing. The menu has starters, under the title graze/fingers/forks which includes a meaty sharing board, a veggie one, mussels and a small portion of BBQ ribs.
The mains are labelled knife and fork, usually; sometimes fingers and has a number of dishes from steaks to hot dogs to burgers and mac n cheese. All honest, hearty fare.
We decided to share our dishes and kicked off with the mussel pot with garlic and white wine (7).
It was a perfect sharing portion (I think I may have been a bit full if Id tackled it alone), with plump, juicy mussels in a delicious sauce. So far so good.
Next came our mains
BBQ pork ribs with slaw and salad (14) and a superbowl of spinach, tomato, walnuts, halloumi, chia, pumpkin seeds, smoked mackerel, beetroot and quinoa (11). Phew. Thats a lot of ingredients.
The ribs were divine
you only had to look at them and they fell apart, and each forkful melted beautifully in your mouth. Perfection.
As for the superbowl, the mackerel was good and the portion was generous, to say the least, but as my colleague said it was too big, too many flavours fighting for attention and the halloumi could have done with a grilling to give it a bit more oomph. But it was tasty nonetheless.
We were stuffed to the gills after our mains and couldnt find room for pud (aka to eat with spoons on the menu
a choice of sticky toffee pudding, cheesecake, chocolate brownie or ice cream at 7 each) and rested a while with the remains of our wine (19.50 for the bottle).
Looking around the restaurant (still full and getting ever more boisterous) it was striking the number of men in there. Whole tables of em. In fact we counted and, including ourselves, there were only six women diners.
Article continues after...
Community radio station rescued by kind-hearted publicanCCTV image released following theft from Pewsey shopJailed: Drinker who kicked man in the head as if it was a footballPrimary school to shut due to gas supply issuesTrowbridge driver, 24, arrested after early morning crash
So it seems the big, meaty portions are going down well with the male population.
In line with Helen Brownings ethos, all the meat comes from the organic farm out at Eastbrook and all the other produce comes from right-on producers across the region, so youre assured of eating only the very best
and all served up with a friendly pinch of humour.
The restaurant has only been going little over a month and, given it was packed throughout the whole evening we were there, it has already proven a huge hit.
And its easy to see why. Our bill came to 51.50, which was reasonable given the size of the portions and the fact that the meat is organic
and we had a delicious bottle of wine to boot.
So Helen Brownings Chop House is off to a flying start. Lets hope its here to stay.
Helen Brownings Chop House
19-21 Wood Street
Swindon SN1 4AN
Tel: 01793 527082
www.helenbrowningschophouse.co.uk
Parking: In nearby car park
Disabled access: Yes (but mention those high tables when booking)
Adver ratings:
Food: 9/10
Choice: 9/10
Decor: 10/10
Customer service: 9/10
Main courses: 10-14
TripAdvisor rating: 4.5/5
To ensure the integrity of our reviews, all our critics dine as paying customers without the restaurants knowledge (unlessotherwise stated). Photographs are taken at a later date. All views expressed are the personal opinion of the writer.
Share
Email
Print this page
Comment(1)
Showbiz news
Radiohead reappear online and tease new album with birdsong
Busted are Coming Home with a brand new song - and fans are divided
What does it take to get red-carpet ready? Amy, Kendall and Kate show off their Met Gala prep
Zayn Malik was Gigi Hadid's knight in shining armour on the Met Gala red carpet
Samia Ghadie says she is safe from the axe on Corrie
Seth Rogen wants Adele to be his neighbour and explains why he hates hugs
Comments (1)
Please log in to enable comment sorting
12:40pm Tue 3 May 16
GrumpyLocal
says...
Didn't actually fancy filling in your ratings section then?!
Didn't actually fancy filling in your ratings section then?!
GrumpyLocal
Score: 0
Quote
Report this post
Log in or Register to get comment alerts.
Post a comment
Comment
Remember you are personally responsible for what you post on this site and must abide by our site terms.
Do not post anything that is false, abusive or malicious. If you wish to complain, please use the report this post link.
Post comment
Share
Email
Print this page
Comment(1)
click2find
Block list
Search
Jobs
Find your next job now in Wiltshire and beyond
Search Now
Dating
Why not make a date in Wiltshire?
Search Now
Homes
Homes for sale and to let in Wiltshire
Search Now
Cars
Cars for sale in Wiltshire and beyond
Search Now
News
Sport
Leisure
Info
Your Say
Business
Community
Announcements
Advertise
Click2find
Buy & Sell
Dating
Cars
Homes
Jobs
Cookie Policy
Contact Us
Subscribe
Photo Sales
Advertise
AdChoices
Archive
Topics
Announcements
Site Map
Exchange and Mart
Two's Company Dating
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Copyright 2001-2016
This site is part of Newsquest's audited local newspaper network
A Gannett Company
Newsquest (Oxfordshire & Wiltshire) Ltd, Loudwater Mill, Station Road, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire. HP10 9TY |3223511| Registered in England & Wales
Newsquest printing
About cookies
We want you to enjoy your visit to our website. That's why we use cookies to enhance your experience.
By staying on our website you agree to our use of cookies.
Find out more about the cookies we use.
I agree