Home
Conditions
ADHD
Anxiety & Panic
Autism
Bipolar
Depression
Eating Disorders
OCD
Parenting
Personality
Psychotherapy
PTSD
Relationships
Schizophrenia
Sleep
Stress
Something Else...
Quizzes
News & Experts
Ask the Therapist
Blogs & Experts
Daily News & Research Updates
World of Psychology
Research & Resources
Find a clinical Trial
Resource Directory
Forums & Support Groups
Find Help
Ask the Therapist
Drugs & Medications
Find a Therapist
Psychotherapy 101
Forums & Support Groups
Take a Quiz
Pro
MenuHome
Conditions
Quizzes
Ask the Therapist
Drugs
Blogs
News
Research
Resources
Find Help
Psychotherapy 101
Forums & Support Groups
Pro
About the BlogArchives
Today I Love The Cotton Clouds
By Kelly Babcock
~ 1 min read
Important clouds
Today I love the cotton clouds puffing by on their important way to where ever it is that cotton clouds must go. I love that perfect blue in the sky, that cheerful green on the lawn and that brilliant green gold that is swelling out on the ends of the branches in nooks and crannies of yards and fields and trails. I love the hazy silver grey of the post dawn horizon to the east that I cannot look at because it is too bright but that my peripheral vision tells me has been inferred by way of visual gossip. I love that we are well in to spring now and spring is something I can get into. I love that as each week goes by there is new progress on our trip around the sun, the pulse of our globes heart beating every 365 days. And the blood of her water flows as sap into the capillaries of her tree limbs, branches, and twigs.
Today I love that I am still here, though in a state of disrepair as I have lost my voice almost completely. I love that this means that I will have more opportunity to listen, something I believe I could be better at. I love that I always feel more appreciative when Im ill for things I take for granted when Im well. Little things like breathing and speaking, big things like singing, they all seem so much a part of life, one with it, until they are separated by illness from me and Im left in awe of how wonderfully seamlessly they fit into the grand scheme, so much so that I never thought of them as individual gifts. So, singing, theres no app for that.
Today I love that I have so much to do, and seemingly so little time, that the whole whirlwind of life is such a rush for me right now. I love that I find myself wondering expectantly, What happens next? Some of the things arent so great, getting sick is not my way favorite way of getting things done, but Im happy to get that over with if it has to be part of the plan. I love that the plans I make never play out and the big plans that seem to be in play always mean that my little plans must be twisted into a shape that will fit into those grand plans. I love that I am sometimes good at twisting.
Today I love coffee under the cotton clouds while my chest reminds me of what a gift it is to be able to breathe freely, so I am looking forward to that.
About Kelly Babcock
I was born in the city of Toronto in 1959, but moved when I was in my fourth year of life. I was raised and educated in a rural setting. I live in an area where my family history stretches back 6 or more generations. I was diagnosed with ADHD at the age of 50 and have been both struggling with the new reality and using my discoveries to make my life better. Find out more about me on my website: writeofway.
Follow @writeofwaydotca
email me at ADHD Man
View all posts by Kelly Babcock
No comments yet...
Related Content from Our Sponsors
APA Reference
Babcock, K.
(2016). Today I Love The Cotton Clouds. Psych Central.
Retrieved on May 3, 2016, from http://blogs.psychcentral.com/today-i-love/2016/05/today-i-love-the-cotton-clouds/
Last updated: 3 May 2016Views expressed are those solely of the writer and have not been reviewed.
Originally published on PsychCentral.com on 3 May 2016. All rights reserved.
Today I Love Community Friends
Brain Differences For Anxiety-Prone Vs. Impulsive Alcoholics Two Studies Explore How Frailty Impacts Older Adults Evidence Found for "Visual Stereotyping"
What's Hot
Bipolar: What Mania Looks Like for Me What You Really Lose When You Lose Perspective
NetworkedBlogsBlog:Today I Love...Topics: Gratitude,
Love,
Inspiration Follow my blog
Subscribe to This Blog
Via RSS feed:
Or Get a Single, Daily Email:via FeedBurner
Most Popular Posts
Today I Love Community Friends
Today I Love Feeling Rested
Today I Love Ship's Horns
Today I Love The Watercolor Sky
Today I Love The Cotton Clouds
Recent Comments
Barbara: Beautiful, Kelly. . .how effortlessly you link your stories, from robins to refugees to schoolboys.
Barbara: Another inspiring and beautifully written piece, Kelly. The first thing I read this morning. . .what a...
peterbeckett: you know that plywood skiff that youve been meaning to start what if there were...
Lori Twining: I loved reading your blog, Today I Love My Writers Group because I also...
Kelly Babcock: Glad theyre part of your world, Gayle, and part of mine as well. Kelly
Join Over 175,000 Subscribersto Our Weekly Newsletter
Find a Therapist
Enter ZIP or postal code
Home
About Us
Ad Choices
Advertise with Us
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Site Map
Disclaimer/Disclosure
Feeds
ADHD
Anxiety
Bipolar
Depression
Schizophrenia
Psychotherapy
Psych Central Professional
Psych Central Blog Network
Psych Central News
Psychological Tests & Quizzes
Sanity Score
Forums
NeuroTalk
Copyright
1995-2016 Psych Central
Site last updated: 03 May 2016Handcrafted with pride in historic Massachusetts.
Psych Central does not provide medical, mental illness, or psychological
advice, diagnosis or treatment. Learn more.