Employers
VCs
Sign In
Dashboard
Search Jobs
Browse Jobs
Your Profile
Advanced Search
Within 50 kilometers
AUBEBRCACNCZDKFIFRDEHKISINIEILITJPKRNLNZNOPHRUSGESSECHAEGBUS
Countries
Return to Basic Search
Build a custom search by adding criteria below
Add Criteria
Back to Search
Apply Now
Follow @startuphire
Pompano Beach, FL Categories:Accounting Jobs in Pompano Beach, FLDeveloper Jobs in Pompano Beach, FLEngineering Jobs in Pompano Beach, FLIT Jobs in Pompano Beach, FLMarketing Jobs in Pompano Beach, FLMobile Jobs in Pompano Beach, FLSales Jobs in Pompano Beach, FL Search by Job TitleInside Sales Specialist JobsInside Sales Representatives JobsInside Sales Rep JobsInside Sales Representative JobsInside Sales Engineer JobsInside Sales Executive JobsInside Sales Account Executive Jobs
Inside Sales Agent (Spanish Bilingual) Open English
inShare
Location: Pompano Beach, FL Date Posted: 04-15-2016 Apply Now
Position Classification:
Full Time, Benefit-Eligible
Reports To:
Director, Call Center
Job Overview :
Source new sales opportunities through inbound lead follow-up and outbound cold calls and emails?
Maintain a high level of ethics and integrity in all dealings
Utilize a personal time management system to facilitate organization and efficiency
Maintain accurate records of activity inside Salesforce
Participate in company, sales and team meetings as necessary
Research accounts, identify key players and generate interest
Assist with all other projects and tasks as directed by management
Other duties as assigned by the company
Benefits:
Subsidized Medical, Dental & Vision Insurance
Disability & Life Insurance
401(k) Retirement Plan with Company Match
Paid Time Off
? Qualifications :
Must be based in South Florida office and work authorization in the U.S. is required
Must Bilingual (English & Spanish)
Proven inside sales experience
Track record of over-achieving quota
Strong phone presence and experience dialing dozens of calls per day
Proficient with corporate productivity and web presentation tools
Experience working with Salesforce.com or similar CRM
Excellent verbal and written communications skills
Strong listening and presentation skills
Ability to multi-task, prioritize , and manage time effectively
Company Overview:
Open English is a leading Education Technology company focused on English language learning for the Latin American and U.S. Hispanic markets. The company was founded in 2007 to reinvent the way to teach English online, to meet the needs of busy working professionals. The platform offers on-demand content as well as personalized, live classes 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, with teachers who are all native English speakers. Students of Open English enjoy a unique, practical and fun learning experience that caters to their own schedule and pace.
To date, the company has offered its online English classes to over 400,000 students all over Latin America ? including Brazil ? and to the Spanish-speaking community in the United States. Open English offices are located in Miami, Bogota, Sao Paulo, Caracas and Buenos Aires.
The company has been featured in the Wall Street Journal, CNN en Espa-ol, NBC, and many Latin American media outlets. To date, Open English has raised $120M in funding - the third highest in Ed Tech history and has been named by PitchBook (2014) as the fifth most valuable Ed Tech company in the world.
Legal Stuff :
We are an equal opportunity employer and value diversity at our company. We do not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, color, national origin, gender, sexual orientation, age, marital status, veteran status, or disability status.
Location:
Pompano Beach, FL
United States
Save This Job Apply NowE-mail To A Friend
Open English
Investors: Flybridge Capital Partners All Jobs: at Open English
Web Site:www.openenglish.com
Headquarters:00000
United States
Support Open English with Social Media services
Find more Inside Sales Agent (Spanish Bilingual) jobs
Close
More jobs at venture capital backed companies.
Near Pompano Beach, FL
The StartUpHire web site requires javascript to function properly.
Home
Dashboard
Search Jobs
Browse Jobs
Blog
Your Profile
About StartUpHire
Team
In The News
Press Releases
Partners
FAQ
Contact Us
Preferences
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Employers
Talent Vault
Auto-Recruiter
Featured Company
Social Media Mega
Venture Investors
Portfolio Jobs
Executive Database
Social Media Mega
Support the Industry
Copyright 2016 StartUpHireWeb Development by Zurka Interactive