site
Archive
subscribe now
|
e-edition
|
find and save
|
newsletter
classifieds
jobs
cars
homes
NEWS NOW
Short two-, three-hour trips to take
...
Hour-away vacays: Three destinations promise fun
...
Welcome to Stark County, Ohio's golf capital
...
Short two-, three-hour trips to take
...
Hour-away vacays: Three destinations promise fun
...
Welcome to Stark County, Ohio's golf capital
...
McKinley, Hoover seniors chosen Teens of the Year
Each month from September to May, two 'Teens of the Month' are selected from our area high schools.
Comment
By Kelly Byer Repository staff writer
The Repository
By Kelly Byer Repository staff writer
Posted May. 2, 2016 at 1:31 PM
Updated at 10:47 PM
By Kelly Byer Repository staff writer
Posted May 2, 2016 at 1:31 PM
Updated at 10:47 PM
CANTONParents beamed and cameras clicked Monday as the Teens of the Year were announced at The Repository's 59th annual awards ceremony.McKinley High School senior Michael Pirovolos and Hoover High School senior Elena Lewis took took the title during a dinner at Skyland Pines.They and the honorable Teen Board member, Maggie Ash, of Jackson High School, each receive a $1,000 scholarship. The Teen Board, comprised of a senior from each high school in Stark County, selects students for the Teen of the Month and Teen of the Year.Pirovolos, who was Teen of the Month in October, describes himself as a "news junkie" and plans to attend Ohio State University for biomedical engineering. He is active in the Greek Orthodox Youth Association, is a literacy mentor and reader for elementary students and was selected MVP of the McKinley freshman football team.Pirovolos said he was impressed with the other candidates' positive attitudes and was humbled to receive the award."It's a great honor," he said.His mother, Demetra, watched as he posed for photos after the ceremony and said the award has long been his aspiration."Ever since he was a little boy, I would read him the Teens of the Month," she said.Lewis, who was Teen of the Month in May, plans to attend High Point University in North Carolina for business marketing. She is president of her school's Speech and Debate team, American Sign Language Club and Student Council. She also has a fashion blog, volunteers for Pathway Caring for Children and participates in youth leadership programs.Lewis and Pirovolos are both speech and debate members who will compete in June at the national tournament in Salt Lake City.Ash, whose advocacy on the Teen Board led to eight Jackson Teens of the Month, said she will enter Ohio State University's honors program and is undecided about her major. She's involved in theater and music.Ash said the achievements of her classmates showed through, and their talents taught her modesty."It's a wonderful inspiration for kids our age," she said.Rich Desrosiers, executive editor of The Repository, presented the awards and congratulated the students on their drive and success. He also recognized the support of their families and the importance they've placed on education."There's a lot of talent in this room," he said.Reach Kelly at 330-580-8323or kelly.byer@cantonrep.comOn Twitter: @kbyerREP
By Kelly Byer Repository staff writer
The Repository
By Kelly Byer Repository staff writer
Posted May. 2, 2016 at 1:31 PM
Updated at 10:47 PM
Comment or view comments
Terms of Service
cantonrep.com
Stark County Directory
Featured Businesses
Loading...
Business Name
addressLocation, ST | website.com
Find Stark County Attractions
Bars
Restaurants
Beauty Salons
Entertainment
Doctors
Medical Specialists
Contractors
Education
Lawn Services
Lawyers
Shopping
Travel
Tanning
Used Cars
Wedding Services
Add your business here +
Events Calendar
Connect with The Repository
Facebook
Twitter
RSS
Back to top
Site services
Media Kit
Contact us
Comment
Subscriber Services
Place an ad
Online forms
Special events
Special products
Audio newspaper
Buy Rep front pages
Buy a photo reprint
Other features
Calendar listing
Newspapers in Education
News tip
Newspaper archives
Letter to the editor
Engagements
Weddings
Sister Publications
Friday Night Ohio
The Times-Reporter
Bark Stark
About Magazine
Calendar of Ohio
The Independent
The Suburbanite
Propel Marketing
More Content Now
Find&Save
Mobile Site
Stay Informed
Email newsletter
Sign Up Today
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
Copyright 2006-2016 Gatehouse Media, LLC Some rights reservedPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service|Gatehouse Media Publications
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted. The Repository | 500 Market Ave. S, Canton, OH 44702