Search
HomeNews
Inside News
Racist Facebook k-word rant causes outcry
A Cape Town man is facing an investigation after he went on a racist rant over Sports Minister Fikile Mbalula's decision to ban four sporting bodies from hosting international sporting events.
Mokopane taxi victims were Wits students
Petrol up, diesel down from Wednesday
Top SA News
Cogta refutes EFF's IEC claim
Schools, post office torched in Vuwani
SACP clarifies Cronin's Zuma comments
Krejcir back in court
Racist Facebook k-word rant causes outcry
Phiyega inquiry to commence
Mokopane taxi victims were Wits students
Top World News
Trump eyes knockout blow against Cruz
Villagers mistake sex toy for angel
Maduro quit calls escalate
Sinn Fein leader sorry for racial slur
IS beheads four young 'spies' in Syria
Trump hits out at Clinton and Cruz
10 Indonesian hostages freed in Philippines
Business
Inside Business
6 Ps of a successful retirement plan
How do you make sure that youve saved enough to enter your retirement years feeling confident and secure? Sanlam's Carl Roothman gives some advice...
Petrol price to increase
Protecting your rights as a tenant
Get Business Insurance
Top SA Business News
RMB enters property market
Starbucks to invest R130m in SA expansion
6 Ps of a successful retirement plan
Petrol price to increase
Rand hits five-month high after JZ ruling
Protecting your rights as a tenant
Shoppers queue for Mall of Africa opening
Top World Business News
Fresh strikes in France over labour bill
BoJ surprises as it holds off stimulus
Deutsche Bank warns of tough year ahead
Top Personal Finance News
6 Ps of a successful retirement plan
Tips to help you stay covered
Make retirement savings child's play
Sport
Inside Sport
Leicester fans euphoric after title win
Ecstatic fans rushed into the streets of Leicester on Monday as the outsiders won the Premier League in a triumph seen as the most astonishing in the history of English football.
Hazard gives Leicester historic title
Lions sweating over Jantjies injury
Top Rugby HeadlinesSharks face Lambie poser
Lions sweating over Jantjies injury
Bulls not thinking about play-offs
Top Cricket HeadlinesCook finds form ahead of SL series
India to resume West Indies ties
Steyn signs for CPL side
Top Football HeadlinesBayern vow to attack Atletico defence
Bale seeks to seal Real resurgence
Leicester fans euphoric after title win
Other SportsFederer withdraws from Madrid tourney
Shin breaks through for first win
Vegas, Stuard share lead
Motoring
Inside Motoring
Latest News
New Models
Road Tests
Features
Formula 1
Sign up for our Motoring Newsletter!
Save on car Insurance
Facelifted Amarok to get more gruntVolkswagen's Amarok bakkie will receive a new powerplant to go along with its facelift for 2017, the automaker revealed.
The world's top carmaker is...
Volvo to test self-driving car in London
Mitsubishi cheating since 1991
Entertain
Inside Entertain
Celeb News
Movies
Music
Get More
Sign up for our Entertain newsletter!
'Spotlight' journo slams Trump's abuseJourno of the Boston Globe probe into Catholic church child abuse that spawned the movie 'Spotlight' has berated Trump.
Princess Charlotte turns one [pics]
Trailer for Obama date movie released
Kris Jenner blasts Kim K's 72-day marriage
Lifestyle
Inside Lifestyle
Food
Love & Sex
Wellness & Psychology
His Life
Her Life
Fashion & Beauty
Parenting
Get Life Insurance
A minute of exercise boosts healthA minute of high intensity exercise has the same health benefits as longer-intensity workouts, a study found.
Nurofen unable to target specific area
Skin cells used to create human sperm
EU food watchdog to reassess bisphenol A
Cooltech
Inside Cooltech
News
Gadgets
Games
Features
Apps of the Week
Viral Videos
Sign up for our Cooltech Newsletter!
Smart Home has security flawsWhile a Smart Home is one of the features of the future we're looking forward to, right now they may not be all that safe...
Internet Explorer has been dethroned
Whatsapp blocked in Brazil
Tablet sales tanking
Travel
Inside Travel
Travel News
Flights
Explore SA
Beyond SA
Accommodation
Competitions
Departure Lounge
Child seen urinating on plane floorA woman shocked passengers on board a flight in China when she helped her granddaughter urinate on the floor of the plane.
The most & least 'touristy' countries
SA Express suspension lifted
World in need of airline controllers
DatingWinTools
Get more
Weather
Newsletters
Lotto
RSS Feeds
Fax2Email
Save on your insurance!Are you covered? Compare quotes for car, life and business insurance right now!
Going somewhere? Search and book the cheapest flights right now
Need a place to stay? Find and book your accommodation online today
What's in the stars for you today? Get your daily horoscope here
Jobs
Facebook
Twitter
iafrica.com Only the good stuff
Indicators$ R14.41
R21.11
R16.69Oil $45.62
Gold $1 296.52
TV Schedule SS320.00Chelsea v Tottenham HotspurSS416.30Stars v Orlando Pirates
Groom leaving Stormers for SaintsTue, 03 May 2016 12:27 PM Share
Your Email
Rugby365Stormers stalwart Nic Groom will be leaving at the end of the season to join English Premiership side the Northampton Saints.The scrumhalf recently brought up his half-century of Super Rugby caps for the Stormers in their victory against the Reds at Newlands.The 26-year-old double Currie Cup winner, who has also played in 59 Currie Cup matches for Western Province, has spent his entire professional career at Newlands having come through the Western Province Rugby Institute.Groom said that while it will be tough to leave, he is looking forward to the challenge that awaits him in the East Midlands."Leaving Cape Town and the Stormers is going to be tough and a big change, but I'm looking forward to embracing new experiences both on and off the field. I have many happy memories playing in Cape Town; it's where it all started for me."I've been here my whole career and I'm so thankful for everyone who has played a role in my journey so far. The coaches, players as well as the passionate fans will always have a special place in my heart.""I'm extremely excited to be joining up with Northampton next season," Groom said. "It's a top club with a proud history and personally it's a big honour to sign with them. I'm hoping to continue growing as a player and as a person and to contribute to what will hopefully be a very successful period at the club."Stormers Director of Rugby Gert Smal said that the scrumhalf still has a big role to play for the Stormers before he leaves."In consultation with Stormers coach Robbie Fleck and Western Province coach John Dobson, we decided to give Nic the opportunity to play for Northampton, but he still has a big role to play in the rest of our Super Rugby campaign."We would like to wish Nic all the best for his future, he has been a stalwart at Newlands and we appreciate the contribution he has made here both on and off the field."We will keep a close eye on the scrumhalves we have in the system, and if necessary we will look at recruiting another scrumhalf," he said.
For more rugby news, visit Rugby365.comRugby365
Read MoreRUGBY STORMERS NORTHAMPTON SAINTS
Comments Please NoteBy commenting on this article, you are agreeing to the Terms and Conditions of the iafrica.com comments system.
Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
blog comments powered by Disqus
In Focus Today
News
Business
Sport
Racist Facebook k-word rant causes outcry
A Cape Town man is facing an investigation after he went on a racist rant over Sports Minister Fikile Mbalula's decision to ban four sporting bodies from...
Read more
6 Ps of a successful retirement plan
How do you make sure that youve saved enough to enter your retirement years feeling confident and secure? Sanlam's Carl Roothman gives some advice...
Read more
Leicester fans euphoric after title win
Ecstatic fans rushed into the streets of Leicester on Monday as the outsiders won the Premier League in a triumph seen as the most astonishing in the...
Read more
Sponsored Links
Wine Of The WeekWork Money SmarterSave on insurance
DatingWomenMenSearchFind love now. Join for free!
iafrica on Facebook
Subscribe to our Newsletters
Your Daily News
Get daily local and international News, Sport
and Business highlights to your inbox.
The Tech Set
Tech savvy geeks and normal peeps chomp at the bits (pun intended) for their weekly fix!
The Spotlight
All the hottest Entertainment News from around the globe in your inbox every week.
The Good Life
Get your weekly Lifestyle highlights sent straight to your inbox.
Go Full Throttle!
Rev those engines and subscribe to the Full Throttle weekly motoring newsletter.
Travel Bug!
All the latest Travel News in your inbox every week.
Yes
No
Do you wish to receive promotions from our partners?
Home
Contact
Feedback
Advertising
Services
About us
Newsletters
Mobi site
Privacy Policy
Terms & Conditions
DMMA
ADTECH
Copyright 2002-2016 iafrica.com, a division of Primedia Online.