Login
Login with Facebook
Login with Google+
Login with Twitter
Login with Independent
Keep me signed in with social media
Remember me
Forgot your password?
Register
3 May 2016, Tuesday
RSS
Login/Register
News
Interviews
Most Read
Panama Papers
My Home
World
News
Oddities
Debate
Editor's Blog
Blogs & Opinions
Polls
Sports
Football
Tennis
F1
Waterpolo
Transfers
Others
Business
News
World
Financial
Company News
Arts
Stage
Books
Music
Cinema
TV
Crossword
Sudoku
Arcade
Life
Human
Health
Food
Education
Growing Up
Motoring
Fashion
Videos
Latest Videos
Newspaper
Leader
Letters
Opinions
Cartoon
Lifestyle & Culture
Supplements
E-Paper
Magazines
Taste & Flair
First
A & H
I DO
Motoring
Vamp
Malta Business Review
Jobs In Malta
DEALTODAY
DEALTODAY
Property Pricing
Home
>
Local
>
News
>
Mr Clean human trafficking case continues, witnesses speak
Mr Clean human trafficking case continues, witnesses speak of deportation threats
Helena Grech
Tuesday, 3 May 2016, 13:30
Last update: about 34 minutes ago
Three Filipino witnesses who took the stand this morning spoke of deportation threats, made by their employers M.C.C.S Ltd (Mr Clean), if they failed to relinquish a refundable 336 from their salary for the months of March and April.
Joseph Degiorgio, 71, his two sons Paul Degiorgio, 47, Christopher Degiorgio and non-executive director Josianne Bugeja Degiorgio are all facing charges of human trafficking, filed by 31 Filipino employees.
All three witnesses, two men and a woman, revealed how they were made to pay up to 6,500 by their employment agency in the Philippines, how they later signed a contract and eventually flew to Malta to begin working with Mr Clean.
Asked about the conditions of employment in the first contract signed in the Philippines, they all said that they would be earning 720 per month, would have free accommodation provided as well as free food.
It was then said that upon arriving in Malta, they were asked to relinquish the contract signed in the Philippines, and were given a new contract to sign, with different working conditions. Their new contract did not include free accommodation or food, and they were also not given a copy of the second contract.
Two of the witnesses were made to pay 130 per month, while the third paid rent of 100 per month.
They were asked to sign a third contract at a later stage, which would deduct 168 in March, and the same amount in April. One witness said that he did not know why this sum would be deducted, as he did not go to the office himself to pick up his pay cheque
which is where a Mr Clean representative allegedly would have explained the reason for this.
When being cross-examined by the defence, all three struggled to a greater or lesser degree to give an explanation as to why they were asked for the 168 deposit.
The second witness of the day however said that Mr Clean secretaries Francis Magbanwar and Eileen Estaban explained that this was a form of bond/deposit which served as insurance should the Filipino employees abruptly quit their job or left the country. The court heard how this would be refunded at the end of their contract. The witness also said that after speaking with Mr Joseph Degiorgio, he was told that if he did not sign the contract which would deduct the 168, he would not be given the rest of his salary.
The female witness said that while she did not agree with the 168 deduction, she signed the contract regardless. She explained that she could not afford not to be paid, because her family in the Philippines needed financial support.
It was pointed out by the defence council that the deduction was revoked, illustrated by the fact that no sum of money was deducted in the April salary. The defence also stressed that prior to Mr Clean making any form of deductions, the employees were invited to the office for an explanation on the matter.
Magistrate Consuelo Scerri Herrera, who is presiding over the case, heard how the witnesses had decided to quit their job following the arraignment of the Mr Clean directors. They all said that they made no attempt to inform any employee within the company, either through text message, phone-call, e-mail or otherwise, that they would not continue to work. They simply did not turn up for work following the news of the arraignment.
Apart from trafficking some 31 Filipino nationals, the company directors are also being charged with incorporating and financing a criminal organization, forming part of the same organization and misappropriation. The court has also heard that there might have been breaches of labour laws.
Lawyer Joe Giglio appeared for Josianne Bugeja. Lawyers Marion Camilleri,Franco Debono, Amadeus Cachia, are defence counsel to the other accused. Lara Dimitrijevic and Ann Maria Bisazza are appearing parte civile. Inspectors Joseph Busuttil and John Spiteri are prosecuting.
don't miss
News
MEPs Miriam Dalli, Roberta Metsola
British newspaper interviews migrants
Unsightly masts in ODZ area of high
Defence argument closes in case of 20kg
European Commission to give conditional
MCCAA warning over IKEA furniture range
Minister Chris Fearne takes over health
Watch: Tidal lane in Boffa Avenue being
open
Terms of Use
Advertising Rates
Contact Us
Designed and developed by Alert eBusiness
Independent Online. 2016. Standard Publications Ltd. Registered Office: Standard House, Birkirkara Hill, St. Julians, STJ 1149, Malta.