site
Archive
subscribe now
|
e-edition
|
find and save
|
newsletter
classifieds
jobs
cars
homes
FEATURED
NEWS NOW
Tribe loses on Twins' home run in ninth
...
A page from history: A fancy Lefkovits store rose downtown
...
Canton council to vote on open container district
...
Tribe loses on Twins' home run in ninth
...
A page from history: A fancy Lefkovits store rose downtown
...
Canton council to vote on open container district
...
Tribe loses on Twins' home run in ninth
Oswaldo Arcia led off the ninth inning with a home run off of Zach McAllister to lift the Minnesota Twins to a 4-3 victory over the Cleveland Indians on Monday night
Comment
By JON KRAWCZYNSKIThe Associated Press
The Repository
By JON KRAWCZYNSKIThe Associated Press
Posted Apr. 26, 2016 at 12:12 AM
By JON KRAWCZYNSKIThe Associated Press
Posted Apr. 26, 2016 at 12:12 AM
MINNEAPOLIS
Oswaldo Arcia led off the ninth inning with a home run off of Zach McAllister to lift the Minnesota Twins to a 4-3 victory over the Cleveland Indians on Monday night.Brian Dozier added a two-run double and the heavily taxed Twins bullpen gave up one run over the final 4 1-3 innings to snap a three-game skid. Kevin Jepsen (1-3) pitched the ninth for the win.Yan Gomes homered and Michael Brantley made his season debut with a pinch-hit appearance in the eighth inning for the Indians, who had a three-game winning streak snapped. McAllister (1-1) gave up his first run in nine appearances this season.McAllister had only allowed one hit this season when he took the mound against the free-swinging Twins. But Arcia sent a drive deep into the right field seats for his third home run of the season and was mobbed at home plate by the desperate Twins.Danny Salazar gave up three runs on three hits and walked four in 4 2-3 innings for the Indians.Tommy Milone didn't get out of the fifth himself. He gave up two runs on seven hits and struck out five in 4 2-3.The Twins struck out just five times on Monday, a significant improvement after fanning 38 times in their final two games in Washington over the weekend. That included 20 strikeouts in a 16-inning loss to the Nationals on Sunday.Brantley, an All-Star in 2014, missed the first 17 games while recovering from right shoulder surgery. He was originally slated to make his debut on Tuesday, but manager Terry Francona sent him to the plate with two outs, runners on the corners, and the score tied 3-3 in the eighth inning. Brantley flew out to left field and finished the game in the outfield.Salazar breezed through four innings, but got out of whack in the fifth. He had a balk, a wild pitch and gave up a two-run double down the line to Dozier, who was hitting .187 when he came to the plate.Miguel Sano added a cue-shot single off of Jeff Manship to push the Twins ahead 3-2.TRAINER'S ROOMIndians: Placed RHP Carlos Carrasco on the 15-day disabled list with a strained left hamstring that could sideline him for up to six weeks. ... Francona said Brantley would get his first start on Tuesday because the team wanted him to play back-to-back days before the team has an off day on Thursday. The plan will be to then play him Friday and Saturday before evaluating him again for the game on Sunday.Twins: RHP Ervin Santana continues to be slowed by back spasms. The team is hopeful to have a clearer picture on his situation in the next day or two. ... 3B Trevor Plouffe (intercostal strain) is on track to come off the DL when his 15 days are up on Tuesday, manager Paul Molitor said.Page 2 of 2 - UP NEXTThe Indians send RHP Cody Anderson (0-1, 7.53) to the mound to face Twins RHP Ricky Nolasco (1-0, 2.66). Anderson has given up 10 earned runs in his last two starts. Nolasco has been one of the few bright spots for the Twins after two injury-riddled seasons.
By JON KRAWCZYNSKIThe Associated Press
The Repository
By JON KRAWCZYNSKIThe Associated Press
Posted Apr. 26, 2016 at 12:12 AM
Comment or view comments
Terms of Service
cantonrep.com
Stark County Directory
Featured Businesses
Loading...
Business Name
addressLocation, ST | website.com
Find Stark County Attractions
Bars
Restaurants
Beauty Salons
Entertainment
Doctors
Medical Specialists
Contractors
Education
Lawn Services
Lawyers
Shopping
Travel
Tanning
Used Cars
Wedding Services
Add your business here +
Events Calendar
Connect with The Repository
Facebook
Twitter
RSS
Back to top
Site services
Media Kit
Contact us
Comment
Subscriber Services
Place an ad
Online forms
Special events
Special products
Audio newspaper
Buy Rep front pages
Buy a photo reprint
Other features
Calendar listing
Newspapers in Education
News tip
Newspaper archives
Letter to the editor
Engagements
Weddings
Sister Publications
Friday Night Ohio
The Times-Reporter
Bark Stark
About Magazine
Calendar of Ohio
The Independent
The Suburbanite
Propel Marketing
More Content Now
Find&Save
Mobile Site
Stay Informed
Email newsletter
Sign Up Today
Sign up for our newsletter and have the top headlines from your community delivered right to your inbox.
Your privacy is important, read our privacy policy.
Copyright 2006-2016 Gatehouse Media, LLC Some rights reservedPrivacy Policy|Terms of Service|Gatehouse Media Publications
Original content available for non-commercial use under a Creative Commons license, except where noted. The Repository | 500 Market Ave. S, Canton, OH 44702